The name Apri comes from that Latin word aperire which means `` to open ''.
This probably refers to growing plants in spring.
Poets use April to mean the end of winter.
For example : April showers bring May flowers.
Easter occurs on a Sunday between March 22nd and April 25th.
Art is a topic which includes drawing, painting, sculpting, dance, music, poetry, prose and theater.
The wind is moving air.
Air is one of the classical elements.
Spain has seventeen parts called `` autonomous communities. ''
`` Autonomous '' means it has power over things in that community.
These are similar to provinces in Canada or states in the United States of America, for example.
Spain also has fifty smaller parts called provinces.
In 1978 these parts came together, making the autonomous communities.
Before then, some of these provinces were together but were broken up again.
The groups that were together once before are called `` historic communities ''.
The governments of these historic communities can do things that the governments of others can not.
In these places some people speak a different language to Spanish.
Seven of the autonomous communities only have one province.
Spain also has two cities on the north coast of Africa.
They are Ceuta and Melilla.
They are not in any autonomous community.
Their governments can do more things than the government of a normal city, but not as many things as the government of an autonomous community.
Alan Mathison Turing -LRB- June 23, 1912 - June 7, 1954 -RRB- worked with maths and a computers.
Andouille is a sort of pork sausage.
It is spicy -LRB- hot in taste -RRB- and smoked.
There are a lot of sorts, all with different combinations of pork meat, fat, intestines -LRB- tubes going to the stomach -RRB- and tripe -LRB- the wall of the stomach -RRB-.
Andouille sausage first came from France or Germany -LRB- no-one is sure -RRB-, and the most famous sort in the USA is the `` Cajun '' style.
Other sorts are `` French andouille '' and `` German andouille '' ; they are less spicy than Cajun.
Cajun has extra salt, black pepper, and garlic.
Andouille makers smoke the sausages over pecan wood and sugar cane for a maximum of seven or eight hours, at about 175 degrees Fahrenheit -LRB- 80 degrees Celsius -RRB-.
Agriculture produces food for humans and for animals.
Agriculture also produces other goods, such as cut flowers, ornamental and nursery plants, fertilizers, animal hides, leather, industrial chemicals -LRB- starch, ethanol, and plastics -RRB-, fibers -LRB- cotton, wool, hemp, and flax -RRB-, fuels -LRB- methane, biodiesel, biomass -RRB-, and both legal and illegal drugs -LRB- biopharmaceuticals, marijuana, opium, cocaine -RRB-.
The origin of agriculture may be more than 10 000 years old.
But some people think it is only 7 000 years old.
The first domestic crops included wheat and barley.
Agriculture started in the Fertile Crescent, in East Asia, and also in Central America.
During a certain period of time, some crops were deliberately planted, and other foods were gathered from the wild.
In the Western world, the efficiency of agriculture has greatly improved over the last decades.
This improvement is due to cultivation of better varieties, better management of the soil, and better weed control.
There are many reasons for this.
farmers are less educated, and they have less money to buy modern equipment.
When yields are low, forests are sometimes cut to provide new lands to grow food.
This is good in the short term, but can be bad for the country and the land in the long term.
The soil is sometimes damaged -LRB- by erosion -RRB-.
Filibuster dimoxyhyroxinate igloo oubilaptus is canabis dictatum like transubstantiation.
Dimoxyroboxianteum is a per sequitis regurgitate.
HEADING Headline text
LEARN ENGLISH !
HEADING Headline text
HEADING Headline text
HEADING Notes
AAA Math web page on teaching addition
addition flashcard website
Addition facts and games
The word `` addition '' slso means to make something bigger.
Today Australia has nearly 20 million people.
The climate in Tasmania was more like that of in England, and farmers found it easy to grow crops there.
In the 1700s, in England, there was a very serious problem with the laws.
In 1788 eleven ships set sail from Portsmouth carrying convicts, sailors, marines, a few free settlers and enough food to last for two years.
Somehow, the little group of tents with a hut for the Governor, Arthur Phillip, and another hut for the supply of food, grew into a small town with streets, a bridge over the stream, a windmill for grinding grain and warves for ships.
It is different in some ways from other variations of English, such as British English.
Historically, many types of American English can be found in old local dialects of England.
Many people today know about American English even if they live in a country where another form of English is spoken.
This is partly because people hear and read American English via the media, for example CNN television, and the Internet, where the most common form of English is American English.
Because people all over the world hear and read American English as well as other versions of English we may find that the English language starts to take on new words.
English has been changing for centuries, adding new words to its vocabulary.
For example, the English language spoken in India, which has more than one billion people, will add more American English words to go along with its British English base and many other words adopted into English usage in India from Indian languages such as Hindi.
These people often continue to use American English in everyday life.
Most changes in a language start with small things like this - for instance Italian, Spanish, French all came from Latin due to many small changes in use over centuries.
Angels in the Bible are usually pictured with wings and a halo.
The wings represent their speed, and the halo represents their holiness.
Apples used for cooking are sour, and need to be cooked with sugar, while other apples are sweet, and do not need cooking.
There are some seeds at the core, that can be removed with a tool that removes the core, or by carefully using a knife.
If one wants to grow a certain type of apple it is not possible to do this by planting a seed from the wanted type.
The seed will have DNA from the apple that the seeds came from, but it will also have DNA from the apple flower that pollinated the seeds, which may well be a different type.
This means that the tree which would grow from planting would be a mixture of two.
In order to grown a certain type of apple, a small twig, or ` scion ', is cut from the tree that grows the type of apple desired, and then added on to a specially grown stump called a rootstock.
The tree that grows will only create apples of the type needed.
HEADING In the United Kingdom
In the United Kingdom there are about 3000 different types of apples.
The most common apple type grown in England is the ` Bramley seedling ', which is a popular cooking apple.
Apple orchards are not as common as they were in the early 1900s, when apples were rarely brought in from other countries.
Organisations such as Common Ground teach people about the importance of rare and local varieties.
` Apple Day ' is celebrated each October in many places.
Many apples are grown in the United States and Canada.
In many areas where apple growing is important, people have huge celebrations :
Cumbria Apple Project
The fruit is found on the branch of an apple tree.
The apple is a pomaceous fruit from the apple tree.
It is in the species Malus domestica in the rose family Rosaceae.
It is one of the most cultivated tree fruits.
The tree came from Central Asia.
Its wild ancestor is still there today.
There are more than 7,500 kinds of different apple trees.
At least 55 million tons of apples were grown around in the world in 2005.
All together, they cost about $ 10 billion.
China produced about 35% of the world 's apples.
The United States produces more than 7.5% of the apples around the world.
This makes it the second greatest producer.
Iran is third, after which comes Turkey, Russia, Italy and India.
HEADING Botanical information
The apple has a small, deciduous tree that grows up to tall.
The apple tree has a broad crown with thick twigs.
The leaves are alternately arranged simple ovals.
They are 5 to 12 cm long and wide.
It has a sharp top with a soft underside.
Blossoms come out in spring at the same time that the leaves begin to bud.
The flowers are white.
They also have a slightly pink color.
They are five petaled, and in.
The fruit in autumn.
It is usually diameter.
There are five carpels arranged in a star in the middle of the fruit.
Every carpel has one to three seeds.
HEADING Wild ancestors
The wild ancestors of Malus domestica are Malus sieversii.
They grow wild in the mountains of Central Asia in the south of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Xinjiang, China, and possibly also Malus sylvestris.
Unlike apples, their leaves become red in autumn.
Archetti M. (2009).
Evidence from the domestication of apple for the maintenance of autumn colors by coevolution.
Proc Biol Sci.
276 (1667) :2575 -80.
PMID 19369261 They are being used recently to develop Malus domestica to grow in colder.
HEADING History
The apple tree was possibly the earliest tree to be cultivated.
Its fruits have become better over thousands of years.
It is said that Alexander the Great discovered apples in Asia Minor in 300 BCE.
Asia and Europe have used winter apples as an important food for thousands of years.
From when Europeans arrived, Argentina and the United States have used apples as food as well.
Apples were brought to North America in the 1600s.
The first apple orchard on the North American continent was said to be near Boston in 1625.
In the 1900s, costly fruit industries, where the apple was a very important species, began developing.
HEADING In culture
HEADING Germanic paganism
In Norse mythology, the goddess Iðunn gives apples to the gods in Prose Edda -LRB- written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson -RRB- that makes them young forever.
English H. R. Ellis Davidson suggests that apples were related to religious practices in Germanic paganism.
It was from there, she claims, that Norse paganism developed.
She points out that buckets of apples were discovered in the place of burial for the Oseberg ship in Norway.
She also remarks that fruit and nuts -LRB- Iðunn having been described as changing into a nut in Skáldskaparmál -RRB- have been discovered in the early graves of the Germanic peoples in England.
They have also been discovered somewhere else on the continent of Europe.
She suggests that this may have had a symbolic meaning.
Nuts are still a symbol of fertility in Southwest England.
HEADING Apple cultivars
There are more than 7,500 known cultivars of apples.
Different cultivars are available for temperate and subtropical climates.
One large collection of over 2,100 apple cultivars is at the National Fruit Collection in England.
Most of these cultivars are grown for eating fresh -LRB- dessert apples -RRB-.
However, some are grown simply for cooking or making cider.
Cider apples are usually too to eat immediately.
However, they give cider a rich flavor that dessert apples can not.
Most popular apple cultivars are soft but.
Colorful skin, easy shipping, disease resistance, ` Red Delicious ' apple shape, and popular flavor are also needed.
Modern apples are usually sweeter than older cultivars.
This is because popular tastes in apples have become different.
Most North Americans and Europeans enjoy sweet apples.
Extremely sweet apples with hardly any acid taste are popular in Asia and India.
HEADING References
Coart, E., Van Glabeke, S., De Loose, M., Larsen, A.S., Roldán - Ruiz, I. 2006.
Chloroplast diversity in the genus Malus : new insights into the relationship between the European wild apple -LRB- Malus sylvestris -LRB- L. -RRB- Mill. -RRB-
and the domesticated apple -LRB- Malus domestica Borkh. -RRB-
Ecol.
15 (8) : 2171-82.
Some people also count the Bahai tradition as an Abrahamic religion.
Even though these religions are quite different from each other in many ways, they also agree in many other very important ways on the basic general nature of the one God whom they worship.
Another thing Abrahamic religions have in common is that they are `` Monotheistic '' -LRB- from the Greek words for `` one '' and `` God '' -RRB-, meaning belief in just one God.
The word `` algebra '' is a Latin form of the Arabic word Al-Jabr -LRB- `` casting '' -RRB- and comes from a mathematics book Al-Maqala fi Hisab-al Jabr wa-al-Muqabilah, -LRB- `` Essay on the Computation of Casting and Equation '' -RRB- written in the 9th century by a famous Persian mathematician, Mohammed ibn-Musa al-Khowarizmi, who was a Zoroastrian born in Kharazm in Iran.
He flourished under Al-Ma ` moun in Baghdad, Iraq through 813-833 AD, and died around 840 AD.
The book was brought into Europe and translated into Latin in the 12th century.
Atoms are made up of 3 kinds of sub-atomic particles - protons, neutrons and electrons.
It is the smallest part of a chemical element that still has the properties of that element.
The atom is the smallest unit of an element that retains the chemical properties of that element.
An atom has an electron cloud consisting of negatively charged electrons surrounding a dense nucleus.
The nucleus contains positively charged protons and electrically neutral neutrons.
When the number of protons in the nucleus equals the number of electrons, the atom is electrically neutral ; otherwise it is an ion and has a net positive or negative charge.
An atom is classified according to its number of protons and neutrons : the number of protons determines the chemical element and the number of neutrons determines the isotope of that element.
The concept of an atom as an indivisible component of matter was first proposed by early Indian and Greek philosophers.
In the 17th and 18th centuries, chemists provided a physical basis for this idea by showing that certain substances could not be further broken down by chemical methods.
During the late 19th and early 20th centuries, physicists discovered subatomic components and structure inside the atom, thereby demonstrating that the ` atom ' was not indivisible.
The principles of quantum mechanics were used to successfully model the atom.
Harrison -LRB- 2003:123 & ndash ; 139 -RRB-.
Relative to everyday experience, atoms are minuscule objects with proportionately tiny masses that can only be observed individually using special instruments such as the scanning tunneling microscope.
Over 99.9% of an atom 's mass is concentrated in the nucleus, Most isotopes have more nucleons than electrons.
In the corner case of hydrogen-1, with a single electron and nucleon, the proton is begin -LCB- smallmatrix -RCB- frac -LCB- 1836 -RCB- -LCB- 1837 -RCB- approx 0.9995 end -LCB- smallmatrix -RCB-, or 99.95% of the total atomic mass. with protons and neutrons having roughly equal mass..
In atoms with too many or too few neutrons relative to the number of protons, the nucleus is unstable and subject to radioactive decay.
Electrons occupy a set of stable energy levels, or orbitals, and can transition between these states by absorbing or emitting photons that match the energy differences between the levels.
The electrons determine the chemical properties of an element, and strongly influence an atom 's magnetic properties.
HEADING History
The concept that matter is composed of units and can not be divided into arbitrarily tiny quantities has been around for millennia, but these ideas were founded in abstract, philosophical reasoning rather than experimentation and empirical observation.
The nature of atoms in philosophy varied considerably over time and between cultures and schools, and often had spiritual elements.
Nevertheless, the basic idea of the atom was adopted by scientists thousands of years later because it elegantly explained new discoveries in the field of chemistry.
Ponomarev -LRB- 1993:14 & ndash ; 15 -RRB-.
The earliest references to the concept of atoms date back to ancient India in the 6th century BCE.
Gangopadhyaya (1981).
The Nyaya and Vaisheshika schools developed elaborate theories of how atoms combined into more complex objects -LRB- first in pairs, then trios of pairs -RRB-.
Teresi -LRB- 2003:213 -- 214 -RRB-.
The references to atoms in the West emerged a century later from Leucippus whose student, Democritus, systemized his views.
In approximately 450 BCE, Democritus coined the term átomos -LRB- -RRB-, which means `` uncuttable '' or `` the smallest indivisible particle of matter '', i.e., something that can not be divided.
Although the Indian and Greek concepts of the atom were based purely on philosophy, modern science has retained the name coined by Democritus.
Further progress in the understanding of atoms did not occur until the science of chemistry began to develop.
In 1661, natural philosopher Robert Boyle published The Sceptical Chymist in which he argued that matter was composed of various combinations of different `` corpuscules '' or atoms, rather than the classical elements of air, earth, fire and water.
Siegfried -LRB- 2002:42 -- 55 -RRB-.
In 1789 the term element was defined by the French nobleman and scientific researcher Antoine Lavoisier to mean basic substances that could not be further broken down by the methods of chemistry.
In 1803, English instructor and natural philosopher John Dalton used the concept of atoms to explain why elements always react in a ratio of small whole numbers -- the
law of multiple proportions -- and why certain gases dissolve better in water than others.
He proposed that each element consists of atoms of a single, unique type, and that these atoms can join together to form chemical compounds.
Wurtz -LRB- 1881:1 -- 2 -RRB-.
Dalton (1808).
Additional validation of particle theory -LRB- and by extension atomic theory -RRB- occurred in 1827 when botanist Robert Brown used a microscope to look at dust grains floating in water and discovered that they moved about erratically -- a phenomenon that became known as `` Brownian motion ''.
J. Desaulx suggested in 1877 that the phenomenon was caused by the thermal motion of water molecules, and in 1905 Albert Einstein produced the first mathematical analysis of the motion, thus confirming the hypothesis.
Mazo -LRB- 2002:1 -- 7 -RRB-.
The physicist J. J. Thomson, through his work on cathode rays in 1897, discovered the electron and its subatomic nature, which destroyed the concept of atoms as being indivisible units.
Thomson believed that the electrons were distributed throughout the atom, with their charge balanced by the presence of a uniform sea of positive charge -LRB- the plum pudding model -RRB-.
of the
hydrogen atom, showing an electron jumping between fixed orbits and emitting a photon
However, in 1909, researchers under the direction of physicist Ernest Rutherford bombarded a sheet of gold foil with helium ions and discovered that a small percentage were deflected through much larger angles than was predicted using Thomson 's proposal.
Rutherford interpreted the gold foil experiment as suggesting that the positive charge of an atom and most of its mass was concentrated in a nucleus at the center of the atom -LRB- the Rutherford model -RRB-, with the electrons orbiting it like planets around a sun.
Positively charged helium ions passing close to this dense nucleus would then be deflected away at much sharper angles.
While experimenting with the products of radioactive decay, in 1913 radiochemist Frederick Soddy discovered that there appeared to be more than one type of atom at each position on the periodic table.
The term isotope was coined by Margaret Todd as a suitable name for different atoms that belong to the same element.
J.J. Thomson created a technique for separating atom types through his work on ionized gases, which subsequently led to the discovery of stable isotopes.
Meanwhile, in 1913, physicist Niels Bohr revised Rutherford 's model by suggesting that the electrons were confined into clearly defined orbits, and could jump between these, but could not freely spiral inward or outward in intermediate states.
An electron must absorb or emit specific amounts of energy to transition between these fixed orbits.
When the light from a heated material is passed through a prism, it produced a multi-colored spectrum.
The appearance of fixed lines in this spectrum was successfully explained by the orbital transitions.
In 1926, Erwin Schrödinger, using Louis de Broglie 's 1924 proposal that particles behave to an extent like waves, developed a mathematical model of the atom that described the electrons as three-dimensional waveforms, rather than point particles.
A consequence of using waveforms to describe electrons is that it is mathematically impossible to obtain precise values for both the position and momentum of a particle at the same time ; this became known as the uncertainty principle, formulated by
Werner Heisenberg in 1926.
In this concept, for each measurement of a position one could only obtain a range of probable values for momentum, and vice versa.
Although this model was difficult to visualise, it was able to explain observations of atomic behavior that previous models could not, such as certain structural and spectral patterns of atoms larger than hydrogen.
Thus, the planetary model of the atom was discarded in favor of one that described atomic orbital zones around the nucleus where a given electron is most likely to exist.
The development of the mass spectrometer allowed the exact mass of atoms to be measured.
The device uses a magnet to bend the trajectory of a beam of ions, and the amount of deflection is determined by the ratio of an atom 's mass to its charge.
The chemist Francis William Aston used this instrument to demonstrate that isotopes had different masses.
The mass of these isotopes varied by integer amounts, called the whole number rule.
The explanation for these different atomic isotopes awaited the discovery of the neutron, a neutral-charged particle with a mass similar to the proton, by the physicist James Chadwick in 1932.
Isotopes were then explained as elements with the same number of protons, but different numbers of neutrons within the nucleus.
In the 1950s, the development of improved particle accelerators and particle detectors allowed scientists to study the impacts of atoms moving at high energies.
Neutrons and protons were found to be hadrons, or composites of smaller particles called quarks.
Standard models of nuclear physics were developed that successfully explained the properties of the nucleus in terms of these sub-atomic particles and the forces that govern their interactions.
Around 1985, Steven Chu and co-workers at Bell Labs developed a technique for lowering the temperatures of atoms using lasers.
In the same year, a team led by William D. Phillips managed to contain atoms of sodium in a magnetic trap.
The combination of these two techniques and a method based on the Doppler effect, developed by Claude Cohen-Tannoudji and his group, allows small numbers of atoms to be cooled to several microkelvin.
This allows the atoms to be studied with great precision, and later led to the discovery of Bose-Einstein condensation.
Historically, single atoms have been prohibitively small for scientific applications.
Recently, devices have been constructed that use a single metal atom connected through organic ligands to construct a single electron transistor.
Experiments have been carried out by trapping and slowing single atoms using laser cooling in a cavity to gain a better physical understanding of matter.
HEADING Components
HEADING Subatomic particles
Though the word atom originally denoted a particle that can not be cut into smaller particles, in modern scientific usage the atom is composed of various subatomic particles.
The constituent particles of an atom are the electron, the proton and the neutron, except that hydrogen-1 has no neutrons and a positive hydrogen ion has no electrons.
The electron is by far the least massive of these particles at 9.11 g, with a negative electrical charge and a size that is too small to be measured using available techniques.
Demtröder -LRB- 2002:39 -- 42 -RRB-.
Protons have a positive charge and a mass 1,836 times that of the electron, at 1.6726 g, although this can be reduced by changes to the atomic binding energy.
Neutrons have no electrical charge and have a free mass of 1,839 times the mass of electrons, Woan (2000:8).
or 1.6929 g. Neutrons and protons have comparable dimensions -- on the order of 2.5 m -- although the ` surface ' of these particles is not sharply defined.
MacGregor -LRB- 1992:33 -- 37 -RRB-.
In the Standard Model of physics, both protons and neutrons are composed of elementary particles called quarks.
The quark is a type of fermion, and is one of the two basic constituents of matter -- the other being the lepton, of which the electron is an example.
There are six types of quarks, each having a fractional electric charge of either +2 \/ 3 or & minus ; 1\/3.
Protons are composed of two up quarks and one down quark, while a neutron consists of one up quark and two down quarks.
This distinction accounts for the difference in mass and charge between the two particles.
The quarks are held together by the strong nuclear force, which is mediated by gluons.
The gluon is a member of the family of gauge bosons, which are elementary particles that mediate physical forces.
HEADING Nucleus
All the bound protons and neutrons in an atom make up a tiny atomic nucleus, and are collectively called nucleons.
The radius of a nucleus is approximately equal to
begin -LCB- smallmatrix -RCB- 1.07 cdot sqrt -LCB- A -RCB- end -LCB- smallmatrix -RCB- fm,
where A is the total number of nucleons.
Jevremovic (2005:63).
This is much smaller than the radius of the atom, which is on the order of 105 fm.
The nucleons are bound together by a short-ranged attractive potential called the residual strong force.
At distances smaller than 2.5 fm this force is much more powerful than the electrostatic force that causes positively charged protons to repel each other.
Pfeffer -LRB- 2000:330 -- 336 -RRB-.
Atoms of the same element have the same number of protons, called the atomic number.
Within a single element, the number of neutrons may vary, determining the isotope of that element.
The total number of protons and neutrons determine the nuclide.
The number of neutrons relative to the protons determines the stability of the nucleus, with certain isotopes undergoing radioactive decay.
The neutron and the proton are different types of fermions.
The Pauli exclusion principle is a quantum mechanical effect that prohibits identical fermions -LRB- such as multiple protons -RRB- from occupying the same quantum physical state at the same time.
Thus every proton in the nucleus must occupy a different state, with its own energy level, and the same rule applies to all of the neutrons.
-LRB- This prohibition does not apply to a proton and neutron occupying the same quantum state. -RRB-
A nucleus that has a different number of protons than neutrons can potentially drop to a lower energy state through a radioactive decay that causes the number of protons and neutrons to more closely match.
As a result, atoms with roughly matching numbers of protons and neutrons are more stable against decay.
However, with increasing atomic number, the mutual repulsion of the protons requires an increasing proportion of neutrons to maintain the stability of the nucleus, which modifies this trend.
Thus, there are no stable nuclei with equal proton and neutron numbers above atomic number Z = 20 -LRB- calcium -RRB- ; and as Z increases toward the heaviest nuclei, the ratio of neutrons per proton required for stability increases to about 1.5.
The number of protons and neutrons in the atomic nucleus can be modified, although this can require very high energies because of the strong force.
Nuclear fusion occurs when multiple atomic particles join to form a heavier nucleus, such as through the energetic collision of two nuclei.
At the core of the Sun, protons require energies of 3 & ndash ; 10 KeV to overcome their mutual repulsion -- the coulomb barrier -- and
fuse together into a single nucleus.
Nuclear fission is the opposite process, causing a nucleus to split into two smaller nuclei -- usually through radioactive decay.
The nucleus can also be modified through bombardment by high energy subatomic particles or photons.
In such processes that change the number of protons in a nucleus, the atom becomes an atom of a different chemical element.
If the mass of the nucleus following a fusion reaction is less than the sum of the masses of the separate particles, then the difference between these two values is emitted as energy, as described by Albert Einstein 's mass -- energy equivalence formula, E = mc2, where m is the mass loss and c is the speed of light.
This deficit is the binding energy of the nucleus.
Shultis et al -LRB- 2002:72 -- 6 -RRB-.
The fusion of two nuclei that have lower atomic numbers than iron and nickel is usually an exothermic process that releases more energy than is required to bring them together.
It is this energy-releasing process that makes nuclear fusion in stars a self-sustaining reaction.
For heavier nuclei, the total binding energy begins to decrease.
That means fusion processes with nuclei that have higher atomic numbers is an endothermic process.
These more massive nuclei can not undergo an energy-producing fusion reaction that can sustain the hydrostatic equilibrium of a star.
HEADING Electron cloud
The electrons in an atom are attracted to the protons in the nucleus by the electromagnetic force.
This force binds the electrons inside an electrostatic potential well surrounding the smaller nucleus, which means that an external source of energy is needed in order for the electron to escape.
The closer an electron is to the nucleus, the greater the attractive force.
Hence electrons bound near the center of the potential well require more energy to escape than those at the exterior.
Electrons, like other particles, have properties of both a particle and a wave.
The electron cloud is a region inside the potential well where each electron forms a type of three-dimensional standing wave -- a wave form that does not move relative to the nucleus.
This behavior is defined by an atomic orbital, a mathematical function that characterises the probability that an electron will appear to be at a particular location when its position is measured.
Only a discrete -LRB- or d -RRB- set of these orbitals exist around the nucleus, as other possible wave patterns will rapidly decay into a more stable form.
Orbitals can have one or more ring or node structures, and they differ from each other in size, shape and orientation.
Each atomic orbital corresponds to a particular energy level of the electron.
The electron can change its state to a higher energy level by absorbing a photon with sufficient energy to boost it into the new quantum state.
Likewise, through spontaneous emission, an electron in a higher energy state can drop to a lower energy state while radiating the excess energy as a photon.
These characteristic energy values, defined by the differences in the energies of the quantum states, are responsible for atomic spectral lines.
The amount of energy needed to remove or add an electron -LRB- the electron binding energy -RRB- is far less than the binding energy of nucleons.
For example, it requires only 13.6 eV to strip a ground-state electron from a hydrogen atom.
Atoms are electrically neutral if they have an equal number of protons and electrons.
Atoms that have either a deficit or a surplus of electrons are called ions.
Electrons that are farthest from the nucleus may be transferred to other nearby atoms or shared between atoms.
By this mechanism, atoms are able to bond into molecules and other types of chemical compounds like ionic and covalent network crystals.
Smirnov -LRB- 2003:249 -- 72 -RRB-.
HEADING Properties
HEADING Nuclear properties
By definition, any two atoms with an identical number of protons in their nuclei belong to the same chemical element.
Atoms with equal numbers of protons but a different number of neutrons are different isotopes of the same element.
For example, all hydrogen atoms admit exactly one proton, but isotopes exist with no neutrons -LRB- hydrogen-1, by far the most common form, sometimes called protium -RRB-, one neutron -LRB- deuterium -RRB-, two neutrons -LRB- tritium -RRB- and more than two neutrons.
The known elements form a set of atomic numbers from hydrogen with a single proton up to the 118-proton element ununoctium.
All known isotopes of elements with atomic numbers greater than 82 are radioactive.
Sills -LRB- 2003:131 -- 134 -RRB-.
About 339 nuclides occur naturally on Earth, of which 269 -LRB- about 79% -RRB- are stable.
Of the chemical elements, 80 have one or more stable isotopes.
Elements 43, 61, and all elements numbered 83 or higher have no stable isotopes.
As a rule, there is, for each atomic number -LRB- each element -RRB- only a handful of stable isotopes, the average being 3.4 stable isotopes per element which has any stable isotopes.
Sixteen elements have only a single stable isotope, while the largest number of stable isotopes observed for any element is ten -LRB- for the element tin -RRB-.
CRC Handbook (2002).
Stability of isotopes is affected by the ratio of protons to neutrons, and also by presence of certain `` magic numbers '' of neutrons or protons which represent closed and filled quantum shells.
These quantum shells correspond to a set of energy levels within the shell model of the nucleus.
Of the 269 known stable nuclides, only four have both an odd number of protons and odd number of neutrons : 2H, 6Li, 10B and 14N.
Also, only four naturally-occurring, radioactive odd-odd nuclides have a half-life over a billion years : 40K, 50V, 138La and 180mTa.
Most odd-odd nuclei are highly unstable with respect to beta decay, because the decay products are even-even, and are therefore more strongly bound, due to nuclear pairing effects.
HEADING Mass
Because the large majority of an atom 's mass comes from the protons and neutrons, the total number of these particles in an atom is called the mass number.
The mass of an atom at rest is often expressed using the unified atomic mass unit -LRB- u -RRB-, which is also called a Dalton -LRB- Da -RRB-.
This unit is defined as a twelfth of the mass of a free neutral atom of carbon-12, which is approximately 1.66 & times ; 10 24 g. Hydrogen-1, the lightest isotope of hydrogen and the atom with the lowest mass, has an atomic weight of 1.007825 u. An atom has a mass approximately equal to the mass number times the atomic mass unit.
The heaviest stable atom is lead-208, with a mass of 207.9766521 u.
As even the most massive atoms are far too light to work with directly, chemists instead use the unit of moles.
The mole is defined such that one mole of any element will always have the same number of atoms -LRB- about 6.022 & times ; 1023 -RRB-.
This number was chosen so that if an element has an atomic mass of 1 u, a mole of atoms of that element will have a mass of 1 g. Carbon, for example, has an atomic mass of 12 u, so a mole of carbon atoms weighs 12 g. Mills et al (1993).
HEADING Size
Atoms lack a well-defined outer boundary, so the dimensions are usually described in terms of the distances between two nuclei when the two atoms are joined in a chemical bond.
The radius varies with the location of an atom on the atomic chart, the type of chemical bond, the number of neighboring atoms -LRB- coordination number -RRB- and a quantum mechanical property known as spin.
On the periodic table of the elements, atom size tends to increase when moving down columns, but decrease when moving across rows -LRB- left to right -RRB-.
Consequently, the smallest atom is helium with a radius of 32 pm, while one of the largest is caesium at 225 pm.
Zumdahl (2002).
These dimensions are thousands of times smaller than the wavelengths of light -LRB- 400 & ndash ; 700 nm -RRB- so they can not be viewed using an optical microscope.
However, individual atoms can be observed using a scanning tunneling microscope.
Some examples will demonstrate the minuteness of the atom.
A typical human hair is about 1 million carbon atoms in width.
-- describes the width of a human hair as 105 nm and 10 carbon atoms as spanning 1 nm.
A single drop of water contains about 2 sextillion (2) atoms of oxygen, and twice the number of hydrogen atoms.
Padilla et al (2002:32) -- `` There are 2,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 -LRB- that 's 2 sextillion -RRB- atoms of oxygen in one drop of water -- and twice as many atoms of hydrogen. ''
A single carat diamond with a mass of 0.2 g contains about 10 sextillion atoms of carbon.
A carat is 200 milligrams.
By definition, Carbon-12 has 12 grams per mole.
The Avogadro constant defines 6 & times ; 1023 atoms per mole.
If an apple was magnified to the size of the Earth, then the atoms in the apple would be approximately the size of the original apple.
Feynman (1995).
The largest atoms observed, as defined by the distance of the outermost electron from the nucleus, have a diameter approaching one millimeter for several orbits of the outermost electron.
HEADING Radioactive decay
Every element has one or more isotopes that have unstable nuclei that are subject to radioactive decay, causing the nucleus to emit particles or electromagnetic radiation.
Radioactivity can occur when the radius of a nucleus is large compared with the radius of the strong force, which only acts over distances on the order of 1 fm.
There are three primary forms of radioactive decay : L'Annunziata -LRB- 2003:3 -- 56 -RRB-.
Alpha decay is caused when the nucleus emits an alpha particle, which is a helium nucleus consisting of two protons and two neutrons.
The result of the emission is a new element with a lower atomic number.
Beta decay is regulated by the weak force, and results from a transformation of a neutron into a proton, or a proton into a neutron.
The first is accompanied by the emission of an electron and an antineutrino, while the second causes the emission of a positron and a neutrino.
The electron or positron emissions are called beta particles.
Beta decay either increases or decreases the atomic number of the nucleus by one.
Gamma decay results from a change in the energy level of the nucleus to a lower state, resulting in the emission of electromagnetic radiation.
This can occur following the emission of an alpha or a beta particle from radioactive decay.
Each radioactive isotope has a characteristic decay time period -- the half-life -- that is determined by the amount of time needed for half of a sample to decay.
This is an exponential decay process that steadily decreases the proportion of the remaining isotope by 50% every half life.
Hence after two half-lives have passed only 25% of the isotope will be present, and so forth.
HEADING Magnetic moment
Elementary particles possess an intrinsic quantum mechanical property known as spin.
This is analogous to the angular momentum of an object that is spinning around its center of mass, although strictly speaking these particles are believed to be point-like and can not be said to be rotating.
Spin is measured in units of the reduced Planck constant -LRB- hbar -RRB-, with electrons, protons and neutrons all having spin 1/2 hbar, or `` spin - 1/2 ''.
In an atom, electrons in motion around the nucleus possess orbital angular momentum in addition to their spin, while the nucleus itself possesses angular momentum due to its nuclear spin.
The magnetic field produced by an atom -- its magnetic moment -- is determined by these various forms of angular momentum, just as a rotating charged object classically produces a magnetic field.
However, the most dominant contribution comes from spin.
Due to the nature of electrons to obey the Pauli exclusion principle, in which no two electrons may be found in the same quantum state, bound electrons pair up with each other, with one member of each pair in a spin up state and the other in the opposite, spin down state.
Thus these spins cancel each other out, reducing the total magnetic dipole moment to zero in some atoms with even number of electrons.
In ferromagnetic elements such as iron, an odd number of electrons leads to an unpaired electron and a net overall magnetic moment.
The orbitals of neighboring atoms overlap and a lower energy state is achieved when the spins of unpaired electrons are aligned with each other, a process known as an exchange interaction.
When the magnetic moments of ferromagnetic atoms are lined up, the material can produce a measurable macroscopic field.
Paramagnetic materials have atoms with magnetic moments that line up in random directions when no magnetic field is present, but the magnetic moments of the individual atoms line up in the presence of a field.
The nucleus of an atom can also have a net spin.
Normally these nuclei are aligned in random directions because of thermal equilibrium.
However, for certain elements -LRB- such as xenon-129 -RRB- it is possible to polarize a significant proportion of the nuclear spin states so that they are aligned in the same direction -- a condition called hyperpolarization.
This has important applications in magnetic resonance imaging.
Liang and Haacke -LRB- 1999:412 -- 26 -RRB-.
HEADING Energy levels
When an electron is bound to an atom, it has a potential energy that is inversely proportional to its distance from the nucleus.
This is measured by the amount of energy needed to unbind the electron from the atom, and is usually given in units of electronvolts -LRB- eV -RRB-.
In the quantum mechanical model, a bound electron can only occupy a set of states centered on the nucleus, and each state corresponds to a specific energy level.
The lowest energy state of a bound electron is called the ground state, while an electron at a higher energy level is in an excited state.
In order for an electron to transition between two different states, it must absorb or emit a photon at an energy matching the difference in the potential energy of those levels.
The energy of an emitted photon is proportional to its frequency, so these specific energy levels appear as distinct bands in the electromagnetic spectrum.
Fowles -LRB- 1989:227 -- 233 -RRB-.
Each element has a characteristic spectrum that can depend on the nuclear charge, subshells filled by electrons, the electromagnetic interactions between the electrons and other factors.
When a continuous spectrum of energy is passed through a gas or plasma, some of the photons are absorbed by atoms, causing electrons to change their energy level.
Those excited electrons that remain bound to their atom will spontaneously emit this energy as a photon, traveling in a random direction, and so drop back to lower energy levels.
Thus the atoms behave like a filter that forms a series of dark absorption bands in the energy output.
-LRB- An observer viewing the atoms from a different direction, which does not include the continuous spectrum in the background, will instead see a series of emission lines from the photons emitted by the atoms. -RRB-
Spectroscopic measurements of the strength and width of spectral lines allow the composition and physical properties of a substance to be determined.
Close examination of the spectral lines reveals that some display
a fine structure splitting.
This occurs because of
spin-orbit coupling, which is an interaction between the
spin and motion of the outermost electron.
When an atom is in an external magnetic field, spectral lines become split into three or more components ; a phenomenon called the Zeeman effect.
This is caused by the interaction of the magnetic field with the magnetic moment of the atom and its electrons.
Some atoms can have multiple electron configurations with the same energy level, which thus appear as a single spectral line.
The interaction of the magnetic field with the atom shifts these electron configurations to slightly different energy levels, resulting in multiple spectral lines.
The presence of an external electric field can cause a comparable splitting and shifting of spectral lines by modifying the electron energy levels, a phenomenon called the Stark effect.
Beyer -LRB- 2003:232 -- 236 -RRB-.
If a bound electron is in an excited state, an interacting photon with the proper energy can cause stimulated emission of a photon with a matching energy level.
For this to occur, the electron must drop to a lower energy state that has an energy difference matching the energy of the interacting photon.
The emitted photon and the interacting photon will then move off in parallel and with matching phases.
That is, the wave patterns of the two photons will be synchronized.
This physical property is used to make lasers, which can emit a coherent beam of light energy in a narrow frequency band.
HEADING Valence
The outermost electron shell of an atom in its uncombined
state is known as the valence shell, and the electrons in
that shell are called valence electrons.
The number of
valence electrons determines the bonding
behavior with other atoms.
Atoms tend to chemically react with each other in a manner that will fill -LRB- or empty -RRB- their outer valence shells.
The chemical elements are often displayed in a periodic table that is laid out to display recurring chemical properties, and elements with the same number of valence electrons form a group that is aligned in the same column of the table.
-LRB- The horizontal rows correspond to the filling of a quantum shell of electrons. -RRB-
The elements at the far right of the table have their outer shell completely filled with electrons, which results in chemically inert elements known as the noble gases.
HEADING States
Quantities of atoms are found in different states of matter that depend on the physical conditions, such as temperature and pressure.
By varying the conditions, materials can transition between solids, liquids, gases and plasmas.
Goodstein -LRB- 2002:436 -- 438 -RRB-.
Within a state, a material can also exist in different phases.
An example of this is solid carbon, which can exist as graphite or diamond.
At temperatures close to absolute zero, atoms can form a Bose -- Einstein condensate, at which point quantum mechanical effects, which are normally only observed at the atomic scale, become apparent on a macroscopic scale.
Myers (2003:85).
This super-cooled collection of atoms
then behaves as a single super atom, which may allow fundamental checks of quantum mechanical behavior.
HEADING Identification
The scanning tunneling microscope is a device for viewing surfaces at the atomic level.
It uses the quantum tunneling phenomenon, which allows particles to pass through a barrier that would normally be insurmountable.
Electrons tunnel through the vacuum between two planar metal electrodes, on each of which is an adsorbed atom, providing a tunneling-current density that can be measured.
Scanning one atom -LRB- taken as the tip -RRB- as it moves past the other -LRB- the sample -RRB- permits plotting of tip displacement versus lateral separation for a constant current.
The calculation shows the extent to which scanning-tunneling-microscope images of an individual atom are visible.
It confirms that for low bias, the microscope images the space-averaged dimensions of the electron orbitals across closely packed energy levels -- the Fermi level local density of states.
-- in particular, see the Nobel lecture by G. Binnig and H. Rohrer.
An atom can be ionized by removing one of its electrons.
The electric charge causes the trajectory of an atom to bend when it passes through a magnetic field.
The radius by which the trajectory of a moving ion is turned by the magnetic field is determined by the mass of the atom.
The mass spectrometer uses this principle to measure the mass-to-charge ratio of ions.
If a sample contains multiple isotopes, the mass spectrometer can determine the proportion of each isotope in the sample by measuring the intensity of the different beams of ions.
Techniques to vaporize atoms include inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry, both of which use a plasma to vaporize samples for analysis.
A more area-selective method is electron energy loss spectroscopy, which measures the energy loss of an electron beam within a transmission electron microscope when it interacts with a portion of a sample.
The atom-probe tomograph has sub-nanometer resolution in 3-D and can chemically identify individual atoms using time-of-flight mass spectrometry.
Spectra of excited states can be used to analyze the atomic composition of distant stars.
Specific light wavelengths contained in the observed light from stars can be separated out and related to the quantized transitions in free gas atoms.
These colors can be replicated using a gas-discharge lamp containing the same element.
Helium was discovered in this way in the spectrum of the Sun 23 years before it was found on Earth.
HEADING Origin and current state
Atoms form about 4% of the total mass density of the observable universe, with an average density of about 0.25 atoms\/m3.
Within a galaxy such as the Milky Way, atoms have a much higher concentration, with the density of matter in the interstellar medium -LRB- ISM -RRB- ranging from 105 to 109 atoms\/m3.
Choppin et al (2001).
The Sun is believed to be inside the Local Bubble, a region of highly ionized gas, so the density in the solar neighborhood is only about 103 atoms\/m3.
Stars form from dense clouds in the ISM, and the evolutionary processes of stars result in the steady enrichment of the ISM with elements more massive than hydrogen and helium.
Up to 95% of the Milky Way 's atoms are concentrated inside stars and the total mass of atoms forms about 10% of the mass of the galaxy.
Lequeux (2005:4).
-LRB- The remainder of the mass is an unknown dark matter. -RRB-
HEADING Nucleosynthesis
Stable protons and electrons appeared one second after the Big Bang.
During the following three minutes, Big Bang nucleosynthesis produced most of the helium, lithium, and deuterium in the universe, and perhaps some of the beryllium and boron.
The first atoms -LRB- complete with bound electrons -RRB- were theoretically created 380,000 years after the Big Bang -- an epoch called, when the expanding universe cooled enough to allow electrons to become attached to nuclei.
Since then, atomic nuclei have been combined in stars through the process of nuclear fusion to produce elements up to iron.
Isotopes such as lithium-6 are generated in space through cosmic ray spallation.
This occurs when a high-energy proton strikes an atomic nucleus, causing large numbers of nucleons to be ejected.
Elements heavier than iron were produced in supernovae through the r-process and in AGB stars through the s-process, both of which involve the capture of neutrons by atomic nuclei.
Elements such as lead formed largely through the radioactive decay of heavier elements.
HEADING Earth
Most of the atoms that make up the Earth and its inhabitants were present in their current form in the nebula that collapsed out of a molecular cloud to form the solar system.
The rest are the result of radioactive decay, and their relative proportion can be used to determine the age of the Earth through radiometric dating.
Manuel -LRB- 2001:407 -- 430,511 -- 519 -RRB-.
Most of the helium in the crust of the Earth -LRB- about 99% of the helium from gas wells, as shown by its lower abundance of helium-3 -RRB- is a product of alpha decay.
There are a few trace atoms on Earth that were not present at the beginning -LRB- i.e., not `` primordial '' -RRB-, nor are results of radioactive decay.
Carbon-14 is continuously generated by cosmic rays in the atmosphere.
Some atoms on Earth have been artificially generated either deliberately or as by-products of nuclear reactors or explosions.
Of the transuranic elements -- those with atomic numbers greater than 92 -- only plutonium and neptunium occur naturally on Earth.
Transuranic elements have radioactive lifetimes shorter than the current age of the EarthMarco (2001:17).
and thus identifiable quantities of these elements have long since decayed, with the exception of traces of plutonium-244 possibly deposited by cosmic dust.
Natural deposits of plutonium and neptunium are produced by neutron capture in uranium ore.
The Earth contains approximately 1.33 atoms.
In the planet 's atmosphere, small numbers of independent atoms of noble gases exist, such as argon and neon.
The remaining 99% of the atmosphere is bound in the form of molecules, including carbon dioxide and diatomic oxygen and nitrogen.
At the surface of the Earth, atoms combine to form various compounds, including water, salt, silicates and oxides.
Atoms can also combine to create materials that do not consist of discrete molecules, including crystals and liquid or solid metals.
This atomic matter forms networked arrangements that lack the particular type of small-scale interrupted order associated with molecular matter.
Pauling -LRB- 1960:5 -- 10 -RRB-.
HEADING Rare and theoretical forms
While isotopes with atomic numbers higher than lead (82) are known to be radioactive, an `` island of stability '' has been proposed for some elements with atomic numbers above 103.
These superheavy elements may have a nucleus that is relatively stable against radioactive decay.
The most likely candidate for a stable superheavy atom, unbihexium, has 126 protons and 184 neutrons.
Each particle of matter has a corresponding antimatter particle with the opposite electrical charge.
Thus, the positron is a positively charged antielectron and the antiproton is a negatively charged equivalent of a proton.
For unknown reasons, antimatter particles are rare in the universe, hence, no antimatter atoms have been discovered in nature.
However, antihydrogen, the antimatter counterpart of hydrogen, was first synthesized at the CERN laboratory in Geneva in 1996.
Other exotic atoms have been created by replacing one of the protons, neutrons or electrons with other particles that have the same charge.
For example, an electron can be replaced by a more massive muon, forming a muonic atom.
These types of atoms can be used to test the fundamental predictions of physics.
HEADING See also
Introduction to quantum mechanics
History of quantum mechanics
Infinite divisibility
List of basic chemistry topics
List of particles
Nuclear model
Radioactive isotope
Transuranium element
HEADING References
HEADING Notes
HEADING Book references
HEADING External links
-- a guide to the atom for teens.
An atom is the basic type of particle that makes up matter, anything that has mass and occupies space.
It is the smallest part of a chemical element that still has the properties of that element.
If atoms are taken to be ball-shaped, they have diameters of about 10-8 meters.
They have masses around 10-23g.
HEADING Origin
The word `` atom '' comes from the Greek, indivisible, from -, not, and, a cut.
Until the end of the 19th century, it was thought that atoms were very tiny solid balls which could never be divided until Albert Einstein -LRB- 1879-1955 -RRB- split the atom, giving us atomic weapons and nuclear power.
This idea comes from Democritus and Leucippus, Greek philosophers in the 5th century BC.
HEADING Types of atom
Atoms are made up of 3 kinds of sub-atomic particles - protons, neutrons and electrons.
Protons are positively charged, but neutrons have no charge.
Electrons are negatively charged.
They are much lighter than the protons and neutrons in the nucleus.
Electrons move very fast around the nucleus.
In a neutral atom, the number of protons is the same as the number of electrons.
In other atoms, the number of neutrons may not be the same as the number of protons.
Charged atoms are called ions.
Atoms with fewer electrons than protons have a positive charge.
These atoms are called cations.
Atoms with more electrons than protons have a negative charge.
These atoms are called anions.
HEADING Structure
At the center of the atom is a tiny cloesely packed region called the nucleus.
The nucleus contains protons and neutrons, which are closely packed together.
A proton and a neutron have about the same mass..
This means the nucleus is positively charged.
The nucleus of an atom is very small, even compared with the atom.
The nucleus is more than 100,000 times smaller than the atom - the size of the atom is determined by the size of the outer electron shell.
To give people another idea of the size difference, if the atom were the size of a football stadium, the atom 's nucleus would be the size of a pea in the middle.
Most of the atom is empty space, occupied by electrons spinning around inside.
HEADING Shells
Electrons orbit at different distances from the nucleus.
We say those closest to the nucleus are in one `` shell, '' and those a little farther away are in another `` shell. ''
Each shell is given a number.
The one closest to the nucleus is shell 1, the next one out is shell 2, and so on.
HEADING Classification
Atoms are generally put into groups by their atomic number.
The atomic number of an atom is the number of protons in the atom -LRB- in atoms that do not have an electric charge, this is the same as the number of electrons -RRB-.
The atomic number decides what family or `` element '' the atom belongs to.
For example, carbon atoms are atoms with 6 protons in them.
All atoms with the same atomic number share lots of physical properties and have the same chemical behavior.
The different kinds of atoms are listed in the Periodic table.
The mass number or nucleon number is the total of protons and neutrons.
The number of neutrons does not change the element of the atom - within an element family are several members, each with the same atomic number but different mass numbers.
These are called isotopes.
To write the name of an isotope, we write the name of an element then its mass number, eg.
Carbon 14 -LRB- which has 6 protons and 8 neutrons in each atom -RRB-.
Some isotopes are radioactive, meaning they give off radiation, while others are called stable, meaning they do not give off any radiation, and any atom that has an atomic number of 83 or higher is also radioactive, whatever isotope it is.
Radioactive atoms and isotopes are dangerous to any living thing except in the smallest possible amounts, and should only handled by experts since they can make people very sick if not handled correctly.
Doctors sometimes use isotopes, like the isotopes of Barium and Iodine to help find illnesses, but they should still be handled very carefully, even though they use very small amounts which are not enough to make a person sick.
There are only 94 different types of atoms that occur naturally in the world.
-LRB- A few more have been made in a laboratory -RRB-.
The next element we make could be an ultra-light solid, a liquid with a boiling point of over 2,000,000 degrees Celsius, or even a heavy gas !
HEADING The Periodic Table
Every different kind of atom has a name and every name has an abbreviation.
The 94 kinds of atoms are usually listed in a table.
The table is called the periodic table.
A scientist called Dmitri Mendeleev was the first to think of the table.
Because of this and other things he did, element 101 was called Mendelevium when it was discovered.
Lots of atoms that have higher numbers are radioactive, like radium and uranium, and should never be handled without a lot of care and protection because they give off so much radiation.
The simplest atom is the hydrogen atom, which has atomic number 1.
The most common type of hydrogen atoms has 1 proton and 1 electron -LRB- with no neutron -RRB-.
The hydrogen isotope containing 1 additional neutron is called deuterium ; the hydrogen isotope with 2 additional neutrons is called tritium.
It has been the subject of much interest in science, particularly in the early development of quantum theory.
HEADING Examples
The first 11 kinds of atoms -LRB- also called elements -RRB- are called hydrogen, helium, lithium, beryllium, boron, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine, neon and sodium.
Their abbreviations are H, He, Li, Be, B, C, N, O, F, Ne, Na.
You may notice that Sodium does not fit with Na.
This is because sodium was most commonly called natrium in the past.
This has carried over into other parts of science as well.
Hyponatremia is an illness where the body lacks enough salt to function properly.
HEADING The purpose of an atom
All matter and all substances are made up of these 95 kinds of atoms.
Most things contain far fewer types of atoms.
Water, for example, contains only atoms of hydrogen and oxygen.
In water these atoms form combinations called molecules.
HEADING Other websites
General information on atomic structure
Atomic structure timeline
When you see atoms as ball-shaped, they have diameters of about 10-8 meters -LRB- that 's 0.00000001 m -RRB-.
They have masses around 10-23g -LRB- that 's 0.00000000000000000000001 g. -RRB-
All matter and all substances are made up of atoms.
Most substances contain far fewer types of atoms.
Water, for example, contains only two atoms of hydrogen and one oxygen atom.
The combinations of atoms are called molecules.
Atoms are made of 3 kinds of basic sub-atomic particles - protons, neutrons and electrons.
Because the electrons are located outside the nucleus, they are the part of the atom that interacts with other atoms.
The word `` atom '' comes from a Greek word `` atomos '' which means `` not cut-able '' Until the end of the 19th century, many people believed atoms were very tiny, solid balls which could never be divided.
You really have no idea just how small it is.
An atom is a basic unit that makes up all matter.
There are many types of atom each with its own name, mass and size.
These are called chemical elements.
For example hydrogen or gold.
Atoms are very small, the exact size changes depending on the element but they range from 0.1 to 0.5 nanometers.
To put that into perspective, one nanometer is around a hundred times smaller than the width a human hair.
This makes atoms almost impossible to see, and so how they work and interact with each other has to be worked out through complex mathematics and equations.
This is called quantum physics.
Atoms combine to make molecules or particles, for example two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom combine to make a water molecule.
Atoms themselves are made up of three smaller particles called protons, neutrons and electrons.
The protons and neutrons are in the middle of the atom.
They are called the nucleus.
The electrons orbit or go around them in a similar way to the planets going around the Sun.
Protons and neutrons are made up of even smaller particles called quarks.
Electrons are fundamental particles, they can not be split into smaller parts.
The number of protons, neutrons and electrons an atom has determines what element it is.
Hydrogen, for example, has one proton, no neutron and no electron whereas the element Sulfur has 16 protons, 16 neutrons and 16 electrons.
HEADING References
The way they work, and how they act with other atoms has to be seen using equations.
The type of physics that studies how the atoms work with each other is called quantum physics.
Astronomy is looking at and study of the planets, stars, galaxies, and other objects found in outer space.
Astronomy is one of the oldest sciences.
It started way before people started writing stuff down -LRB- history -RRB-.
HEADING Astronomy a long time ago
The early astronomers were traders and sailors who needed the stars to guide them at night, and farmers who needed by the rising and setting of certain constellations to find out that planting, flooding, or harvesting times were coming.
There were also the ancient people who built stuff like Stonehenge, and the native North American medicine wheels, for unknown, but probably sacred, reasons.
They needed accurate knowledge of the phases of the Moon, the most north and most south seasonal points of the sun, and other information for their purposes.
Some people thought they could predict the future by studying where the planets were in the sky when a person was born.
Even though people do n't think this is a science now, these astrologers kept careful records of what they saw.
These observations were very inportant to astronomers during the past two centuries when they were trying to understand the Universe.
Not only is astronomy very old, but it is also one that regular people can do with very cheap equipment.
Amateur astronomers have discovered a lot of new and useful stuff, usually about new asteroids or comets, but sometimes about events such as the birth or death of stars.
While some astronomy does take a great amount of money -LRB- for example, a project like the Hubble Space Telescope -RRB-, good astronomy can be done with a simple pair of binoculars.
In fact, binoculars is the best tool for a new astronomer.
They will spend some time working and learning with only their eyes and a simple journal like a notebook.
These observations were very important to astronomers during the past two centuries when they were trying to understand the Universe.
In fact, binoculars are the best tool for a new astronomer.
Astronomy has become a very large science in the past few hundred years, and there are many different types of astronomy.
Lunar astronomers study the moon, while planetary astronomers study the planets near our sun, and the planets near other stars.
Some astronomers study special types of stars, like when two stars are next to each other.
Other astronomers study distant galaxies, which are very large groups of many stars.
These theoretical astronomers use physics and mathematics in combination with computers to create models of how the universe behaves, then they compare their models to what is observed.
They want to understand and predict the events which happen in the universe, and understand how the universe was formed.
Not only is astronomy a very old past-time ; it is also one that ordinary people can do with very cheap equipment.
Early astronomers thought that the Sun and the stars went around or orbited the Earth.
But later, during a time called the Renaissance, a man called Nicolaus Copernicus proved that the Earth moves around the sun.
Galileo got into trouble with the church though because he argued against the idea that Earth was the center of everything.
After Galileo, people used telescopes more often and began to see further-away objects such as the planets Uranus and Neptune.
They also saw how stars were similar to our Sun, but in a range of colors and sizes and other far away objects such as nebula.
Since the 20th century astronomy has progressed a lot.
To study astronomy on a basic level you can just use your eyes.
Many stars are too far away to see with your eyes : you need binoculars or a telescope to see them.
Sometimes, other than the building, the surrounding areas are included in the design too.
Classical buildings have stone columns with fancy -LRB- complex -RRB- designs.
They often have beams placed across them.
Modern buildings have little decoration -LRB- designs to make something more beautiful -RRB- and are often made of steel, glass and concrete.
Architecture involves many fields, for example mathematics, science, art, technology, social sciences, politics, history and philosophy.
Architecture is the art and science of making buildings.
Gates, bridges, trails, and gardens can also be architecture.
People in different countries design different buildings.
This is called architectural style.
Since architecture is art, buildings look different.
Architecture is a very old tradition.
They need to know many things or skills like mathematics, technology, social sciences, and history.
In the beginning, common people built huts and wood houses.
The houses were simple, small, and close together.
Meanwhile, great rulers built large temples and structures like the pyramids in Egypt and the ziggurats in Mesopotamia.
The Ancient Greeks and Romans made Classical architecture.
The Romans are known for the arch and the Greeks used the arch to build aqueducts for watering or irrigation.
The stone column is one of many important architecture features.
In other parts of the world, India 's architecture is famous for stone carving at its temples and palaces.
Later, people in Western Europe in the Middle Ages made Romanesque architecture, then Gothic architecture.
Castles were also built at this time.
In Eastern Europe, churches usually had domes.
Then, the Industrial Revolution happened which let people use machines to make many things at once.
Old factories and flour mills are because of the revolution.
Soon, architects used new tools like cranes and new materials like metal.
Buildings were built up into the sky, called skyscrapers.
This is why we say buildings became more complex over time.
Today, we use Modern architecture which started around 1900.
Modern buildings have little decoration and often use steel, glass, and concrete.
They need to know many things or skills like mathematics, technology, and history.
Meanwhile, great rulers built large temples and structures like the pyramids in Egypt.
Up to this point buildings were limited in size and style by the strength of the wood and masonry used to construct them.
Gothic cathedrals were among the largest buildings because the gothic arch when combined with buttresses allowed stone buildings to be built taller.
For example, the cathdral in Ulm, Germany is over 500 feet tall.
However, building with stone has its limits, and building too tall could result in collapse, an example of which is the Cathedral of Beauvais, which was never completed.
Towards the end of the 19th Century, architects began to use the newer, cheaper materials like metal girders and reinforced concrete to build.
This new technology has made us free from traditional limitations, and because of the new possibilities presented by these materials, many traditional methods of construction and ideas about style were reevaluated, replaced, or abandoned.
Modernism is the name generally applied to the architectural style which developed as a result of these new building technologies, and its begginings can been seen as early as 1890.
Modernism can also refer to a specific group of architects and buildings from the early to late 20th century, and so may not be the proper term to use for many building built since then.
Many buildings existing today, especially skyscrapers like the Chrysler Building in New York, are considered impressive and handsome, and could not have been built using traditional methods.
There are arguments for and against both `` modern '' and `` traditional '' architecture.
Modern architecture typically uses newer technologies and often tries to push the envelope in terms of what is possible.
While this has resulted in some unbelievable buildings, it also often involves unprecedented methods and can lend itself to mistakes.
Also, many find traditional buildings to be more beautiful.
More traditional buildings often involve a level of detail and craft which are not present in many modern buildings.
On top of this, many modern buildings rely heavily on technology and ignore traditional methods which still have merit such as solar orientation and natural ventilation.
Some famous architects at work today have become more interested in doing something ` original ' than producing a functional building, and this can result in some very horrible buildings.
It is believed that asteroids are the remains of a bigger planet that exploded a long time ago.
In the 1600s, Gisuppe Piazzi found the first asteroid.
Other asteroids, like Juno, Pallas, and Vesta were found later.
Today, astronomers know of hundreds of thousands of asteroids, which range from parts of a mile to 600 miles across.
In 1979, the Soviet Union attacked and occupied Afghanistan.
The occupation led to the killings of at least 600,000 to 2 million Afghan civilians, and made many people become refugees.
United States supported an Afghan Islamic uprising, called the Mujahideen -LRB- Arabic word, means `` those who engage in jihad '' -RRB- against Soviet occupationBritannica, Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
After the Soviets left Afghanistan in 1989, a series of civil wars continued.
In 1996, a hardline movement called the Taliban took over Afghanistan.
The Taliban had emerged in 1994, and were sponsored by Pakistan.
Following the September 11 attacks, the United States overthrew the Taliban government for refusing to hand over Osama bin Laden and several al-Qaida members who were also behind these attacks.
Afghanistan is in the path of important trade routes connecting southern and eastern Asia to Europe and the Middle East.
Because of this, many empire builders have conquered the area.
Signs that these conquerors were in the area can still be found in many parts of the countryBritannica, Afghanistan History.
The modern country of Afghanistan was established in 1747.
In 1919, the king of Afghanistan declared independence for the state -LRB- from United Kingdom control over Afghan foreign affairs -RRB- under the new name Afghanistan.
Argentina or the República Argentina, is a country in south South America.
Argentina is the second-largest country in South America and the eighth-largest country in the world.
About 39 million people live in the Argentina.
Spanish is the language most people speak, but many other languages are spoken.
Some of these are Guarani, Mapudungum and Quechua and even Welsh in Patagonia.
The capital city of the Argentina is Buenos Aires, one of the largest cities in the world with the River Plate by the city, in eastern Argentina.
In order by number of people, the largest cities in Argentina are Buenos Aires, Córdoba, Rosario, Mendoza, La Plata, Tucumán, Mar del Plata, Salta, Santa Fe, and Bahía Blanca.
Argentina is located between the Andes mountain range in the west and the southern Atlantic Ocean in the east and south.
It is bordered by Paraguay and Bolivia in the north, Brazil and Uruguay in the northeast, and Chile in the west and south.
It also claims the British overseas territories of the Falkland Islands -LRB- Spanish : Islas Malvinas -RRB- and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands.
HEADING History
The name Argentina comes from the Latin argentum -LRB- silver -RRB- as the Spanish conquistadors believed the area had silver.
The first signs of people in Argentina are located in the Patagonia -LRB- Piedra Museo, Santa Cruz -RRB-, and have more than 13,000 years Piedra Museo.
In 1480 the Inca Empire, conquered northwestern Argentina, integrating it into the empire.
In the northeastern area, the Guaraní developed a culture based on yuca and sweet potato.
Europeans arrived in 1502.
Spain founded Buenos Aires in 1580, and the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata in 1776.
In 1806 and 1807 the British Empire, but the local population managed to beat them.
On May 25, 1810, after Napoleon brought down King Ferdinand VII by Napoleon, the most important people of Buenos Aires created the First Government Junta.
Independence from Spain was declared on July 9, 1816.
Centralist and federationist groups -LRB- Spanish : Unitarios and Federales -RRB- were in war until Argentina was unified and the constitution accepted in 1853.
HEADING Politics
Argentina is a federal republic.
The people of Argentina vote for a President rule them and Senators and Deputies to speak for them and make laws for them.
Today, the President is Nestor Kirchner since 2003.
HEADING Administrative divisions
Argentina is divided into 23 provinces -LRB- provincias ; singular : provincia -RRB-, and 1 autonomous city -LRB- commonly known as capital federal -RRB- :
HEADING Geography
Argentina is almost 3,700 km long from north to south, and 1,400 km from east to west -LRB- maximum values -RRB-.
It can be divided into three parts : the Pampas in the central part of the country, Patagonia in the southern half down to Tierra del Fuego ; and the Andes mountain range along the western border with Chile, with the highest point located in the province of Mendoza.
Cerro Aconcagua, at 6,960 metres -LRB- 22,834 ft -RRB-, is the Americas ' highest mountain.
The most important rivers include the River PlateParaguay, Bermejo, Colorado, Uruguay and the largest river, the Paraná.
HEADING Other Information
Most of the population is made up of descendants of Spanish, Italian and other European countries.
Football is the most popular sport, although the national sport of the country is Pato.
Argentina has a number of highly-ranked Polo players.
Argentina is a Christian country.
Most of Argentina 's people -LRB- 80 percent -RRB- is Roman Catholic.
Roman Catholicism is the state religion
HEADING References
General information and maps
Geography and tourism
Pictures from Argentina grouped by provincia
HEADING External links
HEADING Government
Argentina.
gov. ar - Official national portal
Gobierno Electrónico - Official government website
Presidencia de la Nación - Official presidential website
Honorable Senado de la Nación - Official senatorial website
Honorable Cámara de Diputados de la Nación - Official lower house website
Secretaría de Turismo de la Nación - Official tourism board website
The capital city of the Argentina is Buenos Aires, one of the largest cities in the world, in eastern Argentina.
The oldest signs of people in Argentina are located in the Patagonia -LRB- Piedra Museo, Santa Cruz -RRB-, and are more than 13,000 years old.
Piedra Museo In 1480 the Inca Empire conquered northwestern Argentina, making it part of the empire.
People from Spain arrived in 1502.
In 1806 and 1807 the British Empire attacked, but the local people managed to beat them.
On May 25, 1810, after Napoleon brought down King Ferdinand VII, the most important people of Buenos Aires created the First Government Junta.
Centralist and federationist groups -LRB- Spanish : Unitarios and Federales -RRB- were at war until Argentina was unified and the constitution accepted in 1853.
The people of Argentina vote for a President to rule them and Senators and Deputies to speak for them and make laws for them.
It can be divided into three parts : the Pampas in the central part of the country, Patagonia in the southern part down to Tierra del Fuego ; and the Andes mountain range along the western border with Chile, with the highest point located in the province of Mendoza.
Most of the population is made up of descendants of Spanish, Italian and other European people.
Armenia is no longer part of the Soviet Union since 1991.
Armenia is the place that some Christians believe Noah 's Ark landed, and Noah 's family settled.
The Armenian name for Armenia -LRB- Hayastan -RRB- means Land of Haik.
Haik was the name of a great-great-grandson of Noah.
Today, Armenia has is not friedly with Turkey and Azerbaijan.
The fighting stopped in 1994, and Armenia has control over this land, but Armenia and Azerbaijan have not made peace.
Archaeology is the study of the past by finding and interpretting the remains left behind by people who lived then.
These can include old coins, tools, buildings, and even just piles of ash or garbage.
There are many different kinds of archeologists, who work mostly in a particular region.
For example, some archeologists study in ancient Egypt, while others might study ancient Greece or the Vikings.
There are archeologists who study practically every civilization we know about, and some have discovered new civilizations, such as the ones being found in India.
There is also a small group of archeologists who look for and study human remains hidden under large bodies of water.
These `` underwater archeologists '' hunt for clues about the past by studying shipwrecks or cities that have disappeared under the sea.
There are many kinds of archeologists, who work in different regions.
Some archeologists study ancient Egypt.
Others study ancient Greece or the Vikings.
Archeologists study every civilization we know about.
Some have have discovered new civilizations, like the ones found in India.
A small group of archeologists looks studies human remains hidden under water.
They search for shipwrecks or cities that have disappeared under the sea.
Archaeology is the study of the past by finding the remains left behind by people who lived in the past.
You then need to work out what the stuff means.
There are many kinds of archaeologists, who work in different places.
Some archaeologists study old Egypt.
Others study old Greece or the Vikings.
Archaeologists study every civilization we know about.
Some have have found new civilizations, like the ones found in India.
A small group of archaeologists study human remains hidden under water.
They search for sunk ships or cities that have been lost under the sea.
To a computer user, an application is a type of computer program.
Most computers have many programs running all at the same time, but users only need to worry about a few of them.
The ones that users interact with directly, to do something they need the computer 's help with, are usually called applications.
Web browsers, word processors, email programs, media players, and spreadsheets are good examples of applications.
Some of these programs produce, edit, and print, and are used in most office jobs today.
Thus they are sometimes called productivity or office software.
Technically, more basic programs like text editors, file browsers, telnet, and even Microsoft Windows can be considered application program, although this is not usually what people mean when they talk about a computer application.
Many, if not most, programs running on home computers today are designed to make the computer run faster and easier, like the grease in an engine.
They provide users with conveniences, clean up after them, and invisibly monitor the computer to make things run better.
A programmer would call almost all of these programs applications, but many people would not, especially the ones that are invisible to the user.
So what an application is depends on who you ask.
Other animals eat only meat, and are called carnivores.
Animals that eat both plants and meat are called omnivores.
Being able to move from one place to another is another distinctive characteristic of an animal.
Anything that does not have enough money to pay all of its debt is insolvent.
If it applies for protection by law it may then be bankrupt.
All this provides is more time to work out a new deal between the owners and the people the business owes money.
An individual person who owes debt and can not pay it can also `` declare bankruptcy ''.
That person will lose all but some basic things they own, but all the debt will go away.
It is really just seasoned ground meat, so it does not stay fresh very long, and should be stored and handled appropriately.
Most commonly served as patties or slices from a large roll, breafast sausage also comes in links of different lengths and thickness.
It is really just seasoned ground meat, so it does not stay fresh very long, and should be stored and handled carefully.
There are also vegetarian types that use textured vegetable protein in place of meat.
The Black Death that killed millions of Europeans in the Middle Ages was bubonic plague.
In the 20th century, some countries did research on the bacteria that cuases bubonic plague.
The did research to use it for biological warfare.
Samples of this bacteria are carefully controlled.
There is much paranoia -LRB- fear -RRB- about it.
Dr. Thomas C. Butler, a US expert in this organism was charged in October 2003 by the FBI with various crimes.
This happened after he said he lost samples of Yersinia pestis.
This is the bacteria that causes bubonic plague.
The FBI did not find the samples.
They do not know what happened to them.
The plague was not just carried by rats as some people assume.
It came abroad from Kaffa by the black sea.
From there the disease started to go new places in 1347.
It went to England in 1349.
There it killed half of the people in England.
70% of people who got plague died.
They did research to use it for biological warfare.
Botany is a science.
It is about plants.
There are three regions in Belgium : Flanders -LRB- where the Flemish speak Dutch -RRB- in the northern half of Belgium, Wallonia -LRB- where most Walloons speak French in the southern half and the Brussels-Capital Region in the middle -LRB- where Dutch and French are spoken -RRB-.
Inside Wallonia is the area of the German-speaking Community of Belgium.
The community has its own parliament and government, but they are not yet as powerful as the Flemish and Walloon bodies.
The name ` Belgium ' comes from ` Gallia Belgica ', a Roman region in the northernmost part of Gaul where the Belgae lived, a combination of Celtic and Germanic peoples.
HEADING Geography
Belgium is next to France -LRB- 620 km -RRB-, Germany -LRB- 167 km -RRB-, Luxembourg -LRB- 148 km -RRB- and the Netherlands -LRB- 450 km -RRB-.
Its total area, with surface water area, is 33,990 square kilometers, the land area alone is 30,528 km2.
Belgium has three main geographical regions : the coastal plain in the north-west and the central plateau are part of the Anglo-Belgian Basin ; the Ardennes uplands in the south-east are part of the Hercynian orogenic belt.
The Paris Basin reaches a small fourth area at Belgium 's southernmost tip, Belgian Lorraine.
The coastal plain is made up of mainly of sand dunes and polders.
Further inland lies a smooth, slowly rising landscape watered by many waterways, with fertile valleys and the northeastern sandy plain of the Campine -LRB- Kempen -RRB-.
The hills with many forests and plateaus of the Ardennes are more rough and rocky with caves and small, narrow valleys.
Extending to the west into France, this area is eastwardly linked to the Eifel in Germany by the High Fens plateau, on which the Signal de Botrange forms the country 's highest point at 694 metres -LRB- 2,277 ft -RRB-.
Most people in Brazil speak Portuguese.
It is the world 's fifth largest country, with 180 million people.
It has the world 's fourth largest city, São Paulo, with 10 million people -LRB- 18 million, if we include the whole area -RRB-.
The capital is Brasília, a city planned and built from 1957 to 1960.
Brazil has the world 's largest forest area, the Amazon forest, which makes up 40% of the country 's land.
Brazil has other types of land and plants, including a type of savannah called cerrado, a somewhat dry plant region named caatinga, and even plant life found in hot areas, in Brazil 's South Region.
Brazil is known for samba dancing, Carnaval and soccer, but it also has many other interesting things, a deep, varied culture -LRB- influenced by people who have come from many countries -RRB-, and, in many ways, a changing, modern economy.
Take a look at some of the pages listed below.
HEADING Brazil 's weather
HEADING Brazil 's past
HEADING Brazil 's people
HEADING Political areas in Brazil
There is an incredible biodiversity in Brazil.
The Amazon River is one of the biggest rivers in the world.
Brazil was the unic country of the America that had a royal family.
The Royal Family runned away from Portugal, because Bonaparte could
It makes up 40% of the country 's land area.
Its people include people of Portuguese or other European descent, African descent, and native Amerindians, as well as many people of mixed origins.
Britain is often used as a short name for the United Kingdom -LRB- of Great Britain and Northern Ireland -RRB-.
Sometimes the name Britain is used to refer to the island of Great Britain only, especially in historical contexts e.g. ` Roman Britain '.
-LRB- Some people consider Cornwall to be a fourth country. -RRB-
Most of Brittania was the home of the Celtic people called the Britons or Brythons who spoke the ancestor language of modern Welsh, Cornish and Breton.
When some of these Britons moved to live in north-west France their called their new country by the same name as their old one.
It came to be known as ` Breizh ' in Breton, and was called Brittany in English -LRB- from the French name Bretagne -RRB-.
To make clear the difference between Brittany and Britain some people started to call the island of Britain `` Great Britain '', because it was bigger than the `` little Britain '' -LRB- Brittany -RRB- in France.
It is the study of the materials -LRB- things -RRB- that make up our bodies and everything in the world around us.
Computer numbering formats -LRB- How computers count -RRB-
Computability theory -LRB- Can a computer do something ? -RRB-
Compilers -LRB- Building programs from source code -RRB-
Cryptography -LRB- Making data safer -RRB-
Programming languages -LRB- Languages that a computer can understand -RRB-
Robots
Benchmark -LRB- Testing computer abilities -RRB-
Data compression -LRB- Make data smaller -RRB-
Human-computer interaction -LRB- How we use computers -RRB-
Computer security -LRB- Making computers safe to use -RRB-
Operating systems -LRB- What makes your computer run.
E.G Linux -RRB-
Program verification -LRB- Testing programs -RRB-
Computer vision -LRB- How computers `` see '' things -RRB-
Computer science is the study of computation and its applications, in all forms, as well as the mathematical formulas that have to do with making and using computers.
Computer science is the study of the math, science, and problem solving skills that are needed for making and using computers.
Algorithmic information theory -LRB- how easy or hard is a problem for a computer to solve ? -RRB-
Complexity theory -LRB- how much time and memory does a computer need to solve a problem ? -RRB-
Information theory -LRB- math that studies data and how to pass data -RRB-
Theory of computation -LRB- study how to solve a problems on a computer, using algorithms -RRB-
Graph theory -LRB- math for finding paths from one point to another -RRB-
Type theory -LRB- what kinds of data should computers work with ? -RRB-
Denotational semantics -LRB- math for studying computer languages -RRB-
Algorithms -LRB- study how to solve a problem -RRB-
Compilers -LRB- turning words into computer programs -RRB-
Lexical Analysis -LRB- how to turn words into data -RRB-
Microprogramming -LRB- how to control the most important part of a computer -RRB-
Operating systems -LRB- making and using computer programs to control the main parts of a computer -RRB-
Computer science is a subject in High School.
Computer science is the study of computers.
It is made of the math, science, and problem solving skills that are needed for making and using computers.
Computer science split from other sciences near the end of the 20th century, and made its own ways of doing things and its own set of word meanings.
Computer science studies the theoretical -LRB- ideal, not real -RRB- parts of computers, computer engineering looks at the real parts of computers -LRB- those that you could touch -RRB-, and software engineering looks at how useful computer programs can be and how to make programs.
HEADING Parts of Computer Science
HEADING Central Math
HEADING How an ideal computer works
HEADING Computer Science at work
Program specification -LRB- How a programmer writes a computer program -RRB-
HEADING Ways it is done
Data structures -LRB- How information is grouped or sorted -RRB-
File formats -LRB- How data is stored and grouped within a file -RRB-
Information security -LRB- Keeping data away from people we do n't want to have it -RRB-
VLSI design -LRB- The making of a very large and complex computer system -RRB-
You can think of it as a mix of science, engineering and art.
Computer science, a body of knowledge as to how things count and measure, makes use of electrical machines -LRB- computers for example -RRB-.
A computer scientist will need math, science, and reasoning know-how to make and use computers.
HEADING Common questions a computer scientist may ask
HEADING How do I best detail a question to answer ?
A computer is a machine that can quickly do very simple orders -LRB- called `` instructions '' -RRB-.
The instructions must detail a question so that the computer may answer it.
HEADING Can a computer help answer this question ?
Computers can do some things easily -LRB- for example, simple math or sorting a list of names from A-to-Z -RRB-.
Computers can not do some things, though.
Computers can not answer poorly detailed questions -LRB- `` Does God exist ? '' -RRB-
or questions that have no possible answer.
Computers may answer some questions, but to answer these questions may take too much time -LRB- possibly more than how long the universe exists -RRB-.
For example, it may take too long to find the shortest way through all the towns in the USA, so every so often a computer scientist will look for a nearly full answer -LRB- an approximation -RRB-.
A computer will probably answer these kind of questions much faster.
HEADING How do I best answer this question ?
Algorithms have to do with the way computers answer questions.
Take playing cards, for example.
A computer scientist may want to sort the cards, first by color, and then by order -LRB- like 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, Jack, Queen, King, and Ace -RRB-.
The computer scientist may see different ways to sort the playing cards.
If the way has a detailed account of how to sort the cards, the scientist has made an algorithm.
The scientist first needs to test if the algorithm does what it should in all events.
The scientist can then see how well it sorts the cards.
A simple, but poor, algorithm would : drop the cards, group them up, and see if they look sorted.
If not, do it again.
This will work, but will probably take a very long time.
A person may better do this by looking through all the cards, finding the one that goes in the first position -LRB- 2 of diamonds -RRB-, and putting it at the start.
After this, he looks for the second position, and so on.
This works much faster and does not need as much space.
Computer science left the other sciences near the end of the 20th century and made its own ways of doing things and its own group of word uses.
It has to do with electrical engineering, math and language science.
Computer science looks at the theoretical -LRB- ideal, not real -RRB- parts of computers.
Computer engineering looks at the real parts of computers -LRB- those that a person could touch -RRB-, and software engineering looks at the use of computer programs and how to make them.
Computability theory -LRB- can a computer do something ? -RRB-
Operating systems -LRB- basic computer programs to control different kinds of other programs in computer systems -RRB-
HEADING Parts of computer science
HEADING Central math
Lexical analysis -LRB- how to turn words to data -RRB-
Microprograming -LRB- how to control the most important part of a computer -RRB-
HEADING Computer science at work
Programming languages -LRB- languages that a programmer uses to make computer programs -RRB-
Program verification -LRB- testing computer programs, see debugging -RRB-
HEADING What computer science does
HEADING How do I best specify a question to answer ?
The instructions must specify the question -LRB- use very explicit terms -RRB- so that the computer may answer it.
Computer science uses electric machines -LRB- computers for example -RRB-.
A person who works with computers will often need math, science, and logic in order to make and use computers.
HEADING Asking questions
This is so that they can find new and easier ways to do things.
Computers can do some things easily -LRB- for example : simple math, or sorting out a list of names from A-to-Z -RRB-.
Computers can not answer questions when there is not enough information, or when there is no real answer.
Also, computers may take too much time to finish long tasks.
For example, it may take too long to find the shortest way through all of the towns in the USA - therefore, sometimes it is logical to try to find a close guess.
Algorithms are ways to solve problems or do things.
First he wants to sort them out by color.
He must now think about the details of how he will do it.
When he decides, he has created an algorithm.
A simple but very slow algorithm would be : drop the cards, pick them up, and check whether they are sorted.
This method will work, but it will often take a very long time.
A person may do this better by looking through all the cards, finding the first card -LRB- 2 of diamonds -RRB-, and putting it at the start.
Computer science looks at the theoretical parts of computers.
Operating systems -LRB- big computer programs to run the computer and control different kinds of other programs in computer systems -LRB- like Linux, Microsoft Windows, Mac OS -RRB- -RRB-
Artificial intelligence -LRB- making computers look clever -RRB-
Computer networks -LRB- joining computers to other computers -RRB-
Databases -LRB- a way to sort and store data -RRB-
Software engineering -LRB- step by step ways to make useful programs -RRB-
Data acquisition -LRB- getting data into computers -RRB-
Internet -LRB- a large network that joins up nearly all computers -RRB-
Online computations and algorithms -LRB- computer programs that start at once -RRB-
For example, it may take too long to find the shortest way through all of the towns in the USA - so instead a computer will try to make a close guess.
A computer is a machine which stores knowledge in its memory and does calculations on that knowledge.
This knowledge is stored in symbols ; it is called data.
A computer usually has a monitor to show results.
However, some computers can speak ; computers which can speak can be used for voice mail.
A computer frequently requires a boot device.
The boot device contains the computer 's operating system and data.
Some people also think that computers are less useful if they do not have access to the Internet.
They think this because the Internet allows the computers to send and recieve data across the world.
A computer is now almost always an electronic device.
It usually contains materials which are toxic ; these materials will become toxic waste when disposed of.
When a new computer is purchased in some places, laws require that the cost of its waste management must also be paid for.
This is called product stewardship.
In some countries old computers are melted down to get gold and other metals from them.
This is dangerous, because this procedure releases the toxic waste into the water and soil.
This makes the problem worse.
Many projects try to send working computers to developing nations so they will not become waste as quickly.
People can use them to do jobs, or to have fun.
They change symbols and the jobs they have to do into math equations, and then learning the answers to as many as thousands of millions of these equations every second.
This lets a computer take very hard tasks or strange ideas, and show them with pictures, sound, and words to communicate with the person using them -LRB- the `` user '' -RRB-.
Most of the time, a computer communicates with the user by drawing pictures or writing words on its monitor -LRB- screen -RRB-.
After the computer is done with the data, it will store it on a hard disk.
This list of orders is called an algorhythm.
The disk that contains the operating system is called a boot device.
Having different programs and operating systems makes it easy to learn how to use computers for new things.
One of the most important jobs that computers do for people is helping with communication.
Computers have helped people move forward in science, medicine, business, and learning, because they let experts from anywhere the world work with each other and share information.
They also let other people communicate with each other, do their jobs almost anywhere, learn about almost anything, or share their opinions with each other.
Some people say they like computers and the Internet because everyone can have a voice and be heard by whomever wants to listen to what they have to say.
Experts can use them to help people learn more.
Some blogs are used by companies to sell things.
When a new computer is bought in some places, laws require that the cost of its waste management must also be paid for.
This makes the problem worse, so Computer recycling happens a lot.
A Computer is a machine that does exactly what a person tells it to.
A person uses a computer by telling it to do things, like play movies or go to Wikipedia.
Computers do not know English, so people must tell their computers to do things by speaking the computer 's language.
Programmers speak the computer 's language, and use it to write programs that tell the computer what to do.
Normal people use the programs that a programmer wrote to tell the computer what to do.
Computers can do anything that someone can tell them to do.
Computers are able to do mathematical problems because a programmer has told them how to do math problems.
Because computers are very fast, modern computers can do billions of math problems per second.
Computers are used to control factories, which used to be done by humans.
They are also in homes, where they are used for things such as listening to music, reading the news, and writing.
No-one knows who built the first computer.
This is because th word `` computer '' used to mean a person who did math as their job -LRB- a human computer -RRB-.
Because of this, some people say that humans are the original computer.
Human computers got bored doing the same math over and over again, and made tools -LRB- mechanical calculating devices -RRB- to help them solve their problems.
These later turned into computers.
Humans have a problem with math.
To show this, try doing five hundred eighty-four times three thousand two hundred twenty in your head.
It is hard to remember all the steps !
People made tools to help them remember where they were in a math problem.
The other problem people have is that they have to do the same problem over and over and over again.
A cashier used to make change every day in her head or with a peice of paper.
That 's boring, and people make mistakes.
So people made machines that did those same things over and over.
This part of computer history is called the `` history of automated calculation, '' which is a fancy phrase for `` the history of machines that make it easy for me do do this same math problem over and over without making mistakes. ''
The abacus, the slide rule and arguably the astrolabe and the Antikythera mechanism -LRB- which dates from about 150-100 BC -RRB- are examples of automated calculation machines.
Some people did n't want a machine that would do the same thing over and over again.
For example, a music box is a machine that plays the same music over and over again.
Some people wanted to be able to tell their machine to do different things.
For example, they wanted to tell the music box to play different music every time.
They wanted to be able to program the music box - to order the music box to play different music.
This part of computer history is called the `` history of programmable machines '' which is a fancy phrase for `` The history of machines that I can order to do different things if I know how to speak their language. ''
One of the first examples of this was built by Hero of Alexandria -LRB- c. 10 -- 70 AD -RRB-.
He built a mechanical theater which performed a play lasting 10 minutes and was operated by a complex system of ropes and drums.
These ropes and drums were the language of the machine - they told what the machine did and when.
Some people argue that this is the first programmable machine.
Most historians agree that the `` castle clock '', an astronomical clock invented by Al-Jazari in 1206, is first known programmable analog computer.
It showed the zodiac, the solar and lunar orbits, a crescent moon-shaped pointer traveling across a gateway causing automatic doors to open every hour, Howard R. Turner (1997), Science in Medieval Islam : An Illustrated Introduction, p. 184, University of Texas Press, ISBN 0292781490Donald Routledge Hill, `` Mechanical Engineering in the Medieval Near East '', Scientific American, May 1991, pp.
At the end of the Middle Ages, people in Europe though math and engineering were more important.
In 1623, Wilhelm Schickard made a mechanical calculator.
Other Europeans made more calculators after him.
They were not modern computers because they could not be programmed.
In 1801, Joseph Marie Jacquard used punched paper cards to tell his textile loom how to weave complicated patterns.
The Jacquard loom 's use of punched cards to define woven patterns is an early form of programmability.
Modern computers were made when someone -LRB- Charles Babbage -RRB- had a bright idea.
He wanted to make a machine that could do all the boring parts of math, -LRB- like the automated calculators -RRB- and could be told to do them different ways -LRB- like the programmable machines. -RRB-
Charles Babbage was the first to make a design of a fully programmable mechanical computer.
Do n't confuse the Analytical Engine with Babbage 's difference engine which was a non-programmable mechanical calculator.
Because Babbage did not have enough money and always changed his design when he had a better idea, he never built his Analytical Engine.
The Z3 (1941) was the first working machine that used binary arithmetic.
Binary arithmetic means using `` Yes '' and `` No. '' to add numbers together.
You could also program it.
In 1998 the Z3 was proved to be Turing complete.
Turing complete means that it is possible to tell this particular computer anything that it is mathematically possible to tell a computer.
It is the world 's first modern computer.
The non-programmable Atanasoff -- Berry Computer (1941) which used vacuum tubes to store `` yes '' and `` no '' answers, and regenerative capacitor memory.
The secret British Colossus computers (1943) B. Jack Copeland, ed., Colossus : The Secrets of Bletchley Park 's Codebreaking Computers, Oxford University Press, 2006, which you could kind of sort of program.
It showed that even though it had thousands of tubes, it still worked most of the time.
The Harvard Mark I (1944), A big computer that you could kind of program.
The U.S. Army 's Ballistics Research Laboratory ENIAC (1946), which could add numbers the way people do -LRB- using the numbers 0 through 9 -RRB- and is sometimes called the first general purpose electronic computer -LRB- since Konrad Zuse 's Z3 of 1941 used electromagnets instead of electronics -RRB-.
At first, however, the only way you could reprogram ENIAC was by rewiring it.
They invented a way to for a computer to remember what they had told it, and a way to change what it remembered.
This is known as `` stored program architecture '' or von Neumann architecture.
John von Neumann talked about this design in the paper First Draft of a Report on the EDVAC, distributed in 1945.
A number of projects to develop computers based on the stored-program architecture started around this time.
The first of these was completed in Great Britain.
The first to be demonstrated working was the Manchester Small-Scale Experimental Machine -LRB- SSEM or `` Baby '' -RRB-, while the EDSAC, completed a year after SSEM, was the first really useful computer that used the stored program design.
Shortly afterwards, the machine originally described by von Neumann 's paper -- EDVAC -- was completed but was not really for two years.
Nearly all modern computers use the stored-program architecture in some form.
Nobody knows who built the first computer.
Because of this, some people say that humans were the first computers.
Human computers got bored doing the same math over and over again, and made tools -LRB- mechanical calculating devices -RRB- to help them get the answers to their problems.
Over time these machines became computers.
Chinese Writing does not use letters.
It has but 50,000 different characters, each one made of different lines.
There are many different Chinese languages but they all write using the same characters.
Each line of Chinese is written starting at the top of the page and working downwards.
The lines are written working from the right to the left of the page.
There are two types of Chinese writing, traditional and simplified.
In modern China, most Chinese people do not write the traditional way, they use a computer instead.
The most popular way to use a computer keyboard to type Chinese is called Pinyin.
Chinese writing is often made into a kind of art, called calligraphy, which means making art from writing.
Learning Chinese Online - General Introduction - A page of links to web pages about the Chinese language
Some say that Australia is not a continent but it is often treated like one.
Other groupsWorldatlas.com - AusraliaWorld fact book - Australia believe that it is a continent and that Australia is just a part of this continent and not its own continent.
Some say that Oceania is not a continent but it is often treated like one.
Europe
North America
Australia
South America
Eurasia -LRB- Asia + Europe -RRB-
America -LRB- North America + South America -RRB-
Oceania
Today, China consists of :
the People 's Republic of China, which has the control over most of the area of China
the Republic of China, which controls the island of Taiwan and other small islands -LRB- including the Pescadores, Quemoy, and Matsu -RRB-
China is a large contry in East Asia with history written since around 3,000 years ago.
In 1911 a republic, the Republic of China was founded.
But its government was very weak, and army leaders in different area controlled the local governments.
In 1931, Japan invaded Manchuria, an area in the northestern of China.
Today, the People 's Republic of China controls over almost all the area of China and it also claims the island of Taiwan.
It has a recorded history of about 5,000 years.
But its government was very weak.
Army leaders in different area controlled the local governments.
The war later became part of World War II.
The war was fought for eight years and millions of Chinese people were killed.
In 1945 Japan surrendered unconditionally to the Allied Powers.
In 1911 a country, the Republic of China was founded.
In 1931, Japan invaded Manchuria, a place in the northeastern part of China.
On July 7, 1937, the Japanese attacked the rest of China, causint to the Sino-Japanese War.
In 1945, Japan surrendered unconditionally to the Allied Powers.
After the Chinese Civil War, the communist leader Mao Zedong declared a new country, the People 's Republic of China -LRB- PRC -RRB-, in Beijing on October 1, 1949.
China -LRB- -LRB- traditional Chinese : ; simplified Chinese : -RRB- is a cultural region, an ancient civilization, and, depending on perspective, a nation or multiple nations extending over a large area in East Asia.
It also has one of the world 's oldest writing systems, and is viewed as the source of many major inventions.
Ancient China was one of the earliest civilizations.
Chinese civilization was also one of the few to invent writing, the others being Mesopotamia, the Indus Valley civilization, the Maya civilization, the Minoan civilization of ancient Greece, and Ancient Egypt.
Gernet, Jacques.
(1996).
A history of Chinese civilization Edition 2, illustrated.
Cambridge University Press.
ISBN 0521497817, 9780521497817.
p 40.
China -LRB- traditional Chinese : ; simplified Chinese : -RRB- is a cultural region, an ancient civilization, and, depending on point of view, a nation or multiple nations in East Asia.
Ancient China was one of the first civilizations.
On the first day of the Spring Festival, people call on friends and relatives.
Because most of people watch the Spring Festival Celebrations on CCTV all the night on New Year 's Eve and go to bed until 12:00 PM, they usually get up late in the next day.
The fifth day of the Spring Festival is the day to welcome the God of Wealth -LRB- Chinese : -RRB-, many people make and eat dumplings -LRB- Chinese : -RRB-, they believe that dumplings can hold the God of Wealth and get lucky to themselves.
On this day, the moon becomes the full moon.
People believe that Colchester is the oldest Roman town in England.
Chorizo is a pork -LRB- pig-meat -RRB- sausage which people first made in Spain.
In it is fatty pork in large pieces, with chili and paprika.
The special taste of this sausage comes from the mild Spanish paprika in it.
In the western hemisphere, people know the Mexican and Caribbean sorts better.
In these sorts of chorizo, the pork is in much smaller pieces.
Different seasonings are also in it with the chili.
People eat chorizo without cooking it, or they fry it in oil.
People also use it as a part of other dishes, the same way they eat breakfast sausage.
We can also use it if we have no ground beef or pork.
The Pope ordered a crusade against the Cathars in southern France.
He said any crusader who answered the call would be given the same rewards as a crusader who went to the Holy Land.
This was an absolution of all sin, a forgiveness of all debts, and all the pillaging and raping they could want.
A mistake by the defenders of Beziers let thousands of attackers in.
Arnaud Amaury, the Pope 's official in charge of the crusade, supposedly said the famous phrase : ` Kill them all, God will know his own '.
It is guessed that 20,000 were killed, many of whom were Catholics and not Cathars at all.
The crusade became known as the Albigensian crusade after the town of Albi.
It was to wipe out the Cathars entirely over forty or so years.
The Crusaders wanted to go home, but were ordered by the Pope to continue until the whole South of France was controlled and all Cathars were dead.
The Albigensian crusade actually failed to destroy the Cathar beliefs from southern France.
This would happen by a different sort of crusade, one that turned neighbor against neighbor and brother against brother.
People became terrified that their neighbors had said something about them, so they went and turned in their neighbors first.
It eventually got to the point where people were turning in the dead and corpses were dug up, burned and the property they had left their heirs was taken away by the Roman Catholic Church.
A lot of this crusade was not so much about faith, at least not for the church, but money.
If someone were turned in as a heretic, his property was taken by the church.
The people of southern France could read when most nobles in the north of France could not even sign their own names.
The Army of God, as the crusading force had become known, tried to surround the fortress.
It was difficult landscape and so the people in the fortress were able to still get supplies in.
And, as a show of good will, they also said that any Cathar who wanted to, could give up their faith and leave as well.
There is a legend that says that the night before the fortress was to be turned over to the crusaders, five people slipped out of the fortress and went down the cliff where the fortress sits, with ropes.
It is said that they carried a treasure that was so important that it could not be allowed to fall into enemy hands.
Whatever this treasure may have been, it was not gold or money, as anything of monetary value had already been taken from the fortress some months before.
Some say that it was the holy grail that was carried out of the fortress, others say it was papers showing that the the Cathars were right and that the Church was wrong in some way.
The next day, on March 16, 1244, over 200 Cathars were burned alive at the foot of Montsegur fortress, rather than give up their faith.
Bernard Gui was a famous inquisitor who described the `` heresy '' to later generations of Roman Catholics.
Almost all knowledge that we have of them has come to us through the Roman Catholic Church.
The last known Cathar follower was burned at the stake in the early 1300 's.
The churches in a particular geographical area form a group called the diocese.
Each diocese has a cathedral.
Cooking as an art is the act of mixing food ingredients in a way that makes the food taste really good.
While cooking as a job is only the act of mixing ingredients and heating them to make the food taste good enough to eat.
Usually we cook the food in some kind of pot or pan.
But people sometimes cook food by putting it directly into the fire, by wrapping the food in leaves before they put it into the fire, or holding it over a fire with a stick.
To many people, cooking is an art.
To many other people, it is a job.
Cooking as an art is preparing the food so it tastes really good.
Cooking as an art is preparing the food so it tastes really good or is pleasing to the eye.
Time Cube is a website made by Gene Ray.
It explains his `` Time Cube '' theory, which describes the planet Earth as being a cube, and time as having four `` corners ''.
Many scientists reject this theory, because it makes no sense and can not be tested.
The Time Cube website is written in a very angry voice -LRB- Gene Ray says all scientists are evil, and is very racist -RRB-, and it is difficult to understand.
Many scientists reject this theory, and they claim that the site makes no sense and can not be tested.
The Time Cube website is written in what might be seen as an angry voice -LRB- Gene Ray says all scientists are evil, but is never racist -RRB-, and some people think that the TimeCube.com website is difficult to understand.
HEADING External Hyperlinks
http://www.timecube.com
http://www.abovegod.com
http://www.thegreatestthinker.com
http://www.thewisesthuman.com
http://www.cubicao.tk
The Time Cube website is written in what might be seen as an angry voice -LRB- Gene Ray says all scientists are evil, but is never racist -RRB-, and many people think that the TimeCube.com website is difficult to understand.
Differential calculus is used a lot to find the slope at various points on a curve.
Many professionals use a system of maths called calculus to describe formulas of things such as slopes, volumes, and areas.
Differential calculus divides things into small -LRB- different -RRB- pieces and tells us how they change from one moment to the next, while integral calculus joins -LRB- integrates -RRB- the small pieces together and tells us how much of something is made by a change.
Calculus is is a Latin word, which means a small stone used for counting.
It is the part of mathematics which looks at things that change over time.
Coins are round pieces of metal.
The different decorations on each side of a coin are used to decided things randomly.
a sign as greed, such as Communists -LRB- who want to get rid of them -LRB- and currency altogether, or
REDIRECT Crizle
It could also mean the outer layers of other planets.
A comedy is a very popular type of movie.
Cheese makers usually cook the milk in a large pot and add salt and a substance from the stomach of young cows called rennet.
This curdles the cheese, it makes it solid.
There are special pots for making cheese.
Often, these pots are called vats.
An example is the way the letter `` o '' is usually written.
A circle 's diameter -LRB- d -RRB- -LRB- meaning `` all the way across '' -RRB- is equal to twice its radius.
-LRB- d equals 2 times r, or d = 2r -RRB-
The number pi, usually written using its symbol & pi ;, equal to about 22\/7ths or 3.14159, is very useful for getting information about a circle :
The circumference -LRB- c -RRB- -LRB- meaning `` all the way around '' -RRB- of a circle is equal to & pi ; times the diameter.
-LRB- c equals & pi ; times d, or c = & pi ; d -RRB-
The area of a circle -LRB- a -RRB- is equal to the radius multiplied by itself, then multiplied by & pi ;.
-LRB- a equals & pi ; times -LRB- r times r -RRB-, or a = & pi ; r ^ 2 -RRB-
The area, a, inside a circle is equal to the radius multiplied by itself, then multiplied by -LRB- a equals times -LRB- r times r -RRB- -RRB-.
The radius of a circle is a line from the center -LRB- the point in the very middle -RRB- of the circle to a point on the side.
In other words, the radius is the same length all the way around the circle.
Mathematicians use the letter r for the length of a circle 's radius.
A circle is a round shape.
This was also when Henry VIII made himswdbhasgdfyashidhaudhauishduiashduiahsduiahsuidhasuidhauisdhiuashduiasdelf the new head of the Church of England.
This was also when Henry VIII made himself the new head of the Church of England.
A deadline is a time by which some must be d.
Very often, it means a time limit that is set in place by an authority - for example, a teacher tells students that they must turn in their in by a certain time.
This is so the teacher is able to report fairly to his or her principal that every student had the same chance to do the work.
For example, by sunset one must do those tasks requiring daylight.
However, a human must watch the sun and decide what light is strong enough to still be daylight, so time limits will still be involved even if one observes a horizon and sets a deadline oneself.
A way to remember this is that a time horizon is like the physical horizon where sunset happens and a time limit is a thing people set up to deal with this.
A deadline is a thing powerful people set up to ensure less powerful people comply with their way of doing things.
It can be used by people who speak any language.
Auxiliary means that it is a language designed as a second language for international communication.
Dutton Speedwords is also a shorthand writing system -- this means you can use it to write quickly.
overview of Speedwords by Richard K Harrison 1994
Dutton Speedwords is a made-up language written by Reginald John Garfield Dutton.
The idea of Dutton Speedwords is to make frequent words short, and very frequent words very short.
Dutton Speedwords can be used as a second language for international communications.
A dimension is a measure of the position of something.
For example, the three dimensions that give the position of an object in the world are
Sometimes a fourth dimension, time, is used to show the position of an event in time and space.
HEADING Other Dimensions
In modern science, people talk about other dimensions.
Dimensions like temperature and weight can be used to show the position of something in less simple spaces.
HEADING Mathematical definition
In maths, the distance between the closest end and farthest end of an object its depth.
For liquids, the distance between the top -LRB- surface -RRB- of the liquid and the bottom of what the liquid is in is the liquid 's depth.
For example, water a liquid.
If you fill a pool with water, the distance between the top of the water and the bottom of the pool the water 's depth.
In math, the distance between the closest end and farthest end of an object is its depth.
For example, water is a liquid.
If you fill a pool with water, the distance between the top of the water and the bottom of the pool is the water 's depth.
It is usually arranged in the usual order of the alphabet for the language in which it is written ; from A to Z in many languages of the world.
A dictionary is a book which explains the meanings of words.
The words are arranged in alphabetical order so that they can be found quickly.
The word `` dictionary '' comes from the Latin `` diction '' -LRB- `` word '' -RRB-.
There are several types of dictionaries : dictionaries which explain words and how they are used, dictionaries which translate words from one language to another, dictionaries of biography which tell about famous people, technical dictionaries which explain the meanings of technical words or words connected to a particular subject -LRB- sometimes called a thesaurus -RRB-.
Some of these come close to being an encyclopedia, but an encyclopedia gives a lot of extra information about things -LRB- knowledge -RRB- and does not explain the use of the language.
HEADING Dictionaries which explain the meaning of words
Dictionaries which explain what words mean will give a clear `` definition '' of the word -LRB- e.g. hippopotamus : a hoofed mammal with thick skin, large mouth and short legs that lives in rivers and lakes of Africa. -RRB-
Good dictionaries will also give more information about the word.
It will explain how it is pronounced.
Usually the International Phonetic Alphabet is used for this.
It will explain how the word is used.
This is not a problem for a word like `` hippopotamus '', but a word like `` put '' has so many different meanings that a large dictionary may have a whole page or more to explain how it can be used.
It will also explain what language the word comes from -LRB- e.g. Greek `` hippos '' horse and `` potamus '' river -RRB-.
A dictionary may also give the form of the word in different tenses, plural form etc.
HEADING Dictionaries which translate into foreign languages
There are also dictionaries which translate words into foreign languages.
Very often one volume -LRB- one book -RRB- will translate both ways, e.g. half the book will be translating from English to Dutch and the other half from Dutch to English.
When using a dictionary to find out how to say something in another language one has to be careful to choose the right word.
A word like `` right '' has two basic meanings in English : 1 -RRB- `` correct '', and 2 -RRB- the opposite of `` left ''.
Other languages are not like English : they will have different words for these different meanings.
A word like `` put '' has many meanings.
A good dictionary will have a large list of these meanings to help people find the word they want.
In many languages, for example, the word `` put '' will be different according to whether something is being put onto something -LRB- e.g. a table -RRB- or into something -LRB- e.g. a cupboard -RRB-.
HEADING Updating dictionaries
Dictionaries need to be updated frequently because of the way language changes.
New words are often brought into a language -LRB- e.g. lots of computer terms -RRB- or words change their meanings -LRB- e.g. `` gay '' or `` cool '' -RRB-.
The most famous English Dictionary is the Oxford English Dictionary -LRB- or OED -RRB-.
Words are always being added to the OED, they are never taken out even if they are obsolete -LRB- not used any more -RRB-.
The OED can be accessed online -LRB- with a subscription -RRB-.
A definition is an exact word or pharse of the meaning, nature, or limits of something.
Jade amethyst gold crap Jade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapvvJade amethyst gold crap Jade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapvvJade amethyst gold crap Jade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapvvJade amethyst gold crap Jade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapvvJade amethyst gold crap Jade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapvvJade amethyst gold crap Jade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapvvJade amethyst gold crap Jade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapvvJade amethyst gold crap Jade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapvvJade amethyst gold crap Jade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapJade amethyst gold crapvv
The cuisine of Denmark is like the other Nordic countries -LRB- Finland, Norway, Iceland, and Sweden -RRB-, as well as that of northern Germany, consists mainly meat and fish.
Death is a term that is used to describe the permanent ending of life processes in a plant or animal life form.
exposure to an environment other that which is compatible with the life form ;
not having enough food, water, air, or protection ;
being attacked or eaten, usually by a larger life form of another species ;
abuse, resulting in any of the above occurring
Exposure to an environment that does n't agree with the life form ;
Also there are rituals like a funeral around human death, that usually must happen by religion or the state.
In the case of diseases, terminal is also used quite often.
Death is a term that is used to describe the permanent ending of life processes in a plant or animal life form -LRB- ie when you die -RRB-.
Accident, such as a fall or a drowning or murder ;
Exposure to an environment that does n't agree -LRB- disagrees -RRB- with the life form ;
Also there are rituals like a funeral -LRB- which is usually very, very sad -RRB- around human death, that usually must happen by religion or the state.
Death, like taxes, is unavoidable.
There are special times in which people recover even though the heart has stopped for 30 minutes, such as near-drowning in very cold water.
People die if they are killed ;
Death is the end of life in an organism.
About 150,000 people die every day around the world.
About two thirds of these people die because of reasons related with age.
For a long time, many people have been afraid of death and a lot of people have wondered about what may happen to people after they die.
This is one of the greatest questions of philosophy and religion.
HEADING References
It is separated from Asia by a traditional eastern boundary that includes the Ural Mountains in Russia and the Bosporus in Turkey, and from Africa by the Mediterranean Sea.
The Atlantic Ocean is to the west of Europe.
The name was later used for Greece.
Then as the rest of the area we call Europe started to have cities and empires, the whole area West of the Ural Mountains became known by the same name.
In Europe there are different climates in different places ; for example, in the north like Finland it stays snowy in the winter for 5-6 months and is about -30 degrees Celsius.
However, during winter in Spain it is warmer and hardly snows, except on highmountains.
is a written collection of human knowledge.
An Encyclopedia -LRB- or encyclopædia -RRB- is a written collection of human knowledge.
The largest online encyclopedia is Wikipedia in English, which has more than 3 million articles now.
Earth has air that we breathe, water that we drink, and much light reaches it from the sun.
Earth spins -LRB- that means is turns around itself -RRB- so each part of it is in light during the day and dark at night.
It has six continents which rise above the oceans to make land.
The Earth 's poles are cold and covered with ice because they get less sunlight than other parts.
The heat from the sun makes the oceans turn into steam to make clouds and change the Earth 's weather.
The Earth is the only place we know about which has life.
No one can know for sure, but one idea that some scientists have -LRB- called a `` theory '' -RRB- is that the Earth was formed from a flat circle of gas and dust around 4.55 billion years ago, and that gravity -LRB- the force that holds everything together -RRB- pulled the gas into a bigger and bigger ball of molten rock that cooled down very slowly over millions of years.
According to this idea, dense materials sank deeper into the ball to form a core -LRB- center -RRB- of dense hot rock.
Less dense materials stayed on the surface and cooled to form a solid rocky crust -LRB- outside layer -RRB-.
Scientists also think that later, another planet as big as Mars smashed into Earth and big pieces of it were sent flying into space.
Some scientists also believe that early life had already started on Earth before the smash, but was nearly killed by it.
All religions do not agree about this, and even all scientists do not agree about this, so it is really a question without an answer.
All you need to know is earth is stupid.
plain and simple.
HEADING The Earth 's Beginnings
No one knows for sure how the Earth was formed, but the best possible idea that scientists have -LRB- called a `` theory '' -RRB- is that the Earth was formed from a flat circle of gas and dust around 4.55 billion years ago, and that gravity -LRB- the force that holds everything together -RRB- pulled the gas into a bigger and bigger ball of molten rock that cooled down very slowly over millions of years.
HEADING The Earth 's Future
The sun is expect to shine stably for another billion years before the sun will start to get bigger.
At that time, the Sun would engulf the Earth 's current orbit, but the Earth is thought to have escaped to a higher orbit at that time since sun will have lost 30% of its gravity.
However, now, we calculated that because of tidal tugging and drag, the Sun will pull Earth into itself and swallow the Earth up before the Sun gets bigger.
No matter what, our ocean and air will have long be driven off into space.
It is one of the four terrestrial planets in our Solar System.
This means it has a mostly solid surface.
Some scientists think that the Moon might have been made when a small planet which is sometimes called Theia.
Scientists believe that it crashed into Earth and bit broke off - becoming the Moon.
Below that is a layer of thick, liquid rock called the mantle.
Earth is the third planet from the Sun.
This means most of its surface is solid.
No other planet, that humans know of has a hydrosphere.
This is why we have 365 days in a year.
Et cetera means `` and others '' in Latin.
It is often used in English to continue a list that is longer than what can be normally written.
For example, `` I have pets like cat, dog, cow, horse, kangaroo, rabbit, etc. ''
Ethics is the study of what is right -LRB- a good thing -RRB- and wrong -LRB- a bad thing -RRB-.
By understanding what is right, it helps people make a choice about what to do.
Morality is what other people have already worked out to be the good thing or the bad thing to do.
Morality can be hard for people to agree on, so studying different ideas about morality carefully as a science can help.
In work, thinking about ethics can help with hard questions.
People like doctors and nurses have to make hard choices about how to care for people.
Sometimes the person being cared for, their family or the doctor do not agree what is best for them.
Also, choices have to made if there is not enough money for all people to get the help they need.
The study of this is called medical ethics
Discussing ethics can also be a way to stop people fighting or starting a war.
By talking about ethics, people hope to get what they want without being violent.
This works when all people agree that peace is very important.
Ethics is a branch of philosophy.
A morality is what someone thinks or feels is good or bad.
There are many different moralities, but they share some things.
For example most people think that murder -LRB- killing somebody -RRB- is wrong.
Some philosophers hope to find more things moralities share.
They think that ethics is the study of things that people think are good or bad using the scientific method.
Other philosophers think that ethics is seperate from morality.
They do not think ethics can be studied using the scientific method and that it is cloaser to metaphysics.
Some of them are Platonists about what is good and bad.
Here are some ways :
In religion, people often learn what is good or bad from beings they believe are better than any humans -LRB- Gods -RRB-.
For example, there is a saying that ` money is the root of all evil '.
The philosophy of Marxism says that a few people using money in the wrong way can hurt many other people.
Government policy can be affected by what politicians think is ethical.
The study of this is called buisness ethics
Along with Aesthetics ethics forms part of axiology the philosophy of what people like.
The Republic is a book by Plato that says that people who have power should use ethics to make choices.
The Prince is a book by Niccolò Machiavelli that says that people who have power should not use ethics to make choices.
Ethics is the part of philosophy that talks about good and evil.
Ethics tries to answer questions like :
What actions are good ?
What actions are evil ?
How can we tell the difference ?
Are good and evil the same for everyone ?
How should we make hard decisions that might help or hurt other people ?
E Prime is English minus the words be, is, are, am, was, or were - the verb to be does not exist.
Instead of those words you use become, remain, and equal.
E Prime is not Basic English because Basic English takes up all of those words with `` be '', and invents `` bes '' for is, `` beed '' for was, etc..
Simple English does not use these words, and encourages using become, remain, and equal, because they are always more exact and do not have as much bias.
But it does not also ban to be, which is fine for words where there is no dispute about meaning.
E Prime is English without the words `` be, '' `` is, '' `` are, '' `` am, '' `` was, '' or `` were '' - the action word `` to be '' does not exist.
Instead of using those words, an E Prime writer or speaker writes sentences so that `` to be, '' is not used, possibly using `` become '', `` remain '', and `` equal. ''
E Prime is not part of Basic English - Basic English has more words and is more difficult.
Some Simple English writers encourage using `` become, '' `` remain, '' and `` equal, '' because the editors think these words are always more exact.
But Simple English allows forms of to be, which is fine for words which have an agreed meaning.
E Prime is English without the words `` be, '' `` is, '' `` are, '' `` am, '' `` was, '' or `` were. ''
E Prime does not have `` to be ''.
Instead, an E Prime writer or speaker writes sentences that do not use `` to be. ''
The writer or speaker can use `` become '', `` remain '', and `` equal. ''
E Prime is not part of Basic English.
Basic English has more words and is more difficult.
Some Simple English writers encourage using `` become, '' `` remain, '' and `` equal, '' because they think these words are more exact.
A place in the United States : English, Indiana, named after William Hayden English, an Indiana politician that served in the United States House of Representatives and ran for Vice President of the United States in 1880.
Economics is the study of how people make choices to get what they want.
Like this, it competes with ethics as the most basic social science - both economics and ethics tell `` why people do what they do '', and very often they disagree.
Economic `` choice '' includes some things are needs.
These are thigns like food.
Energy economics studies these very directly, and is a part of ecology.
Most study in economics studies supply and demand, focuses on transactions, which are offers and requests -LRB- this is microeconomics -RRB-.
Study at this level often assume that nature 's services of resource renewal and waste disposal continue in the background regardless of what humans do.
Macroeconomics often seems to deny that there is any ecological constraint on human activity on Earth, or that energy or creativity matter at all.
Economics is the study of the decisions people make so they can get what they want.
It or ethics is the most basic social science.
Both economics and ethics explain why people do what they do, and very often they disagree.
Economic `` choice '' includes some things are needs, for example food.
Energy economics studies these needs on their own, and is a part of ecology.
Study at this level often assumes that nature 's services of resource renewal and waste disposal continue in the background whatever humans do.
Macroeconomics often seems to say that there is not any ecological thing to stop on human activity on Earth, or that energy or creativity matter at all.
Scarcity -LRB- not having enough -RRB-
Productivity is the amount of the produced goods divided by total working hours.
When there is an increase in the total money supply, or when the cost to produce things rises, prices go up.
Egypt is famous for its very old monuments, such as the Pyramids.
Egypt has been an independent country since 1901.
It is a member of the United Nations and the Arab League.
It is a republic.
It is a big country, but a lot of Egypt is desert.
Most people live in areas around the coast of the Mediterranean Sea and along the Nile River.
This includes the cities of Alexandra, Aswan and Port Said.
Not many people live in the desert areas.
Today, Egypt has about 70 million people.
Egypt is divided into 26 areas, called governorates.
The Egyptian Parliament sits in Cairo and makes laws for the whole country.
The government is led by the President.
Today, the President is Hosni Mubarak.
Today, the people of Egypt are mostly Muslim, though in the past, many people were Christian.
There are still some Christians in Egypt today.
Many of these belong to the Coptic Orthodox Church.
Egypt has produced many famous people.
Some of these include Omar Sharif, who was an actor, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who was the first person from Africa to lead the United Nations, and Anwar Sadat, who won the Nobel Peace Prize.
It is a large country, but a good portion of of Egypt consists of desert.
Many of these belong to the Coptic Orthodox Church, but there is a growing Evangelical Christian movement in the larger cities.
Some of these include Omar Sharif, who is an international actor, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who was the first person from Africa to lead the United Nations, in addition to four Nobel Prize winners : Anwar Sadat, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1978, Naguib Mahfouz, who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1988, Ahmed Zewail, who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1999, and Mohamed ElBaradei, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2005.
The leaders of Everything2 do things without asking other people.
With web sites there can be a getting information, or a social group.
Web sites which are social groups make cliques and they leave out the people they do n't like.
Some people on Everything2 are called `` gods ''.
They have special powers that nobody has.
On Wikipedia, all people can edit pages, but on Everything2 only `` gods '' and other very few special people can edit pages.
It lets people make pages about many different things, and some people use it as a diary, but the people in charge of Everything2 sometimes remove pages that they do n't like, or even very good pages from people they do n't like, makes other people angry.
There is no voting or talking in groups before things are done on Everything2.
It lets people make pages about many different things, and some people use it as a diary, but the people in charge of Everything2 sometimes remove pages that they do n't like, or even very good pages from people they do n't like, making other people angry.
The Flescher-Kincaid index tells how easy something is to read.
The Flescher-Kincaidian Reading level measures textual difficulty and tells you the grade level of a text.
Definition 1 : The Flescher-Kincaidian index tells how easy something is to read.
Definition 2 : When filming a porn movie, how wide the anus is after it has been `` fucked ''.
The wider it is, the higher the Flescher-Kincaidian level will be.
Financial capital is a form of Capital.
It is things that have value, but do not do anything.
They are only valuable because people value -LRB- want -RRB- them.
For example money is a form of financial capital.
You can not do anything with money but it still has value.
Financial capital is used to pay for things, this is because it is never used up and people allways want it.
This means that Financial capital has a stable value and can be traded in most places and with most people.
Some forms of financial capital, such as stocks, gold or bonds are not wanted by everybody.
However they can be traded with people for Money or sometimes other types of financial capital.
Because of this these forms of financial capital do not have a stable price.
This means that some people try to make a profit by buying and selling these types of financial capital in a market.
Some things are treated as financial capital, even though they do have a use.
For example some people buy and sell land but are not interested in doing anything with it.
Some people think this sort of trade is bad because the land should be used and not just treated like moneyl.
Other types of capital, such as Social capital and human capital are rarley treated like financial capital.
This may be because they involve people.
Treating useful capital like financial capital is called comodification.
In politics a common question is how much the government should use financial capital.
In particular should the government trade in financial capital to make a profit.
Traditionally liberal politicians do not mind such traiding but socialist or conservative politicians are against it.
See also National debt
It is things that have value, but do n't do anything by themselves.
Financial capital is used to pay for things, this is because it is never used up and people always want it.
This means that financial capital has a stable value and can be traded in most places and with most people.
Other types of capital, such as Social capital and human capital are rarely treated like financial capital.
A foot -LRB- plural : feet -RRB- is a bodypart on the end of a leg.
It is used when walking, and is important for balance.
It is also used to kick, in both fighting and sports like football.
In some countries, height is usually measured in feet and inches.
If a person is `` five foot eleven '', this means that person is 5 feet and 11 inches, or about 180 centimeters, tall.
The height is written as 5 ' 11 ''.
The abbreviation for `` foot '' is `` ft. '', or '' ' ''.
It is a 3 week -LRB- 3,630 km -RRB- race that covers most of France and ends in the center of Paris.
In France there are many different climates.
They are in Paris, the capital of France.
In the east winters are cold and clear.
Summers are hot and stormy.
22 of them are in Metropolitan France :
The departments are divided into 342 arrondissements.
The arrondissements are re-divided into 4,032 cantons.
On January 1, 2008, INSEE counted 36,781 communes in France.
36,569 of them are in metropolitan France and 212 of them are in overseas France.
There are many cities in France.
France had a monarchy until the French Revolution in 1789.
His armies conquered most of continental Europe.
In the north and west of France there are low hills and river valleys.
As for French children 's literature in those times, Charles Perrault was probably the most famous writer.
He wrote stories such as : `` Little Red Riding Hood '', `` Cinderella '', `` Sleeping Beauty '' and `` Puss in Boots ''.
Many famous French novels were written in the the 19th century by author such as Victor Hugo, Alexandre Dumas and Jules Verne.
France hosted the Summer Olympics twice.
In 1900 and in 1924 in Paris.
France also hosted the Winter Games three times.
In 1924 in Chamonix, in 1968 in Grenoble and in 1992 in Albertville -RRB-.
France is ranked as the eighth largest economy by GDP adjusted for purchasing power parity which takes into account how much it costs to live in different countries and inflation rates.
France is the most visited country in the world with more than 82 million tourists visiting every year.
France is the most visited country in the world.
82 million foreign tourists visit it every year.
France is the number one tourist destination in the world.
It was `` markka '' before 2002.
There are also many rivers and so many lakes that you can not count them all.
Many islands in the Baltic sea belong to Finland, too.
At winter the weather is cold.
There is a lot of snow on the ground, but no polar bears or penguins.
HEADING History of Finland
Russia was called the Soviet Union that time.
Leaders of the Soviet Union wanted Finland to be a part of the Soviet union.
Finland was not joined with the Soviet Union and Finland is still independent.
Also more and more people go at university to have a good education.
Finland was one of the first countries where most people had internet connection and mobile phones.
The most important cities in Finland are Helsinki, Vantaa, Espoo -RRB-, Tampere, Turku, Oulu, Lahti, Kuopio and Jyväskylä.
Welfare states have very high taxes, but free health care, education, and welfare for people without work.
There are big forests and many trees in Finland.
There are also many rivers and lakes.
In the past, there were many wars.
Soviet Union sent many troops to Finland to try to make Finland join it.
There were many fights, and Finnish soldiers won many times.
Finally, the leaders of both countries agreed to make peace.
Finland was not joined with the Soviet Union, but had to give away some land to make the peace.
After the war, there were many factories built in Finland.
At that time, big factories did simple things, like make paper and steel.
Now more and more people work on more advanced things, like high technology.
Also, more people go to a university to get a good education.
Most people in Finland speak Finnish, but there is a big group of Swedish-speakers, living mostly in the west of Finland and on Åland.
Finns were interested in freedom and not dictatorship.
A known company that makes mobile phones, Nokia, is from Finland.
Most of the western and southern Finland is seashore of the Baltic Sea.
Finland -LRB- Suomi in Finnish language -RRB- is a country in Northern Europe and is also a member of the European Union.
Finland is located very north, which means that the winters there are cold, although its location near sea makes it a little warmer.
Finland -LRB- Suomi in the Finnish language -RRB- is a country in Northern Europe and is also a member of the European Union.
A farm is a piece of land used to grow plants and\/or raise animals for food.
Compare : Ranch
It deals with the distribution of natural and human parts on the earth 's surface.
It tries to describe instead of predict, so there is some overlap with zoology -LRB- also descriptive -RRB- and ecology -LRB- more predictive -RRB-.
The word geography comes from the Greek words gê -LRB- `` Earth '' -RRB- and graphein -LRB- `` to write '' -RRB-.
Here are some things that are studied in geography :
The order of the words has changed : if you just translate the words -LRB- vocabulary -RRB- and not the grammar back to English, you get `` me please cars fast ''.
Grammar is a set of the rules about how to speak and write well in a language.
Some people use grammar that is different to others ' when speaking.
All languages have grammar.
Even though this is wrong English grammar, it is right in Spainish.
For example, people who use what is called General American English might say, `` I did n't do anything, '' while someone who speaks what is called African American Vernacular English or AAVE might say, `` I did n't do nothing. ''
These differences are called dialects.
The dialect a person uses is usually decided by where they live.
Even though the dialects of English use different words or word order, they still have grammar rules.
However, when writing in American English, good grammar uses the rules of General American English.
When people talk about using `` proper English, '' they mean using the grammar -LRB- rules -RRB- of General American English.
The study of a language : how it works, and everything about it.
This is a correct usage grammar, as in a textbook or manual.
The system which people learn as they grow up.
Four of the Great Lakes are shared between Canada and the United States of America.
Lake Michigan the only great lake that is all inside the United States.
It was initially created for use with software documentation, but can be applied to other types of works as well.
As a copyright license, the GFDL is like a contract between the creator of a copyrightable work -LRB- such as a book, an encyclopedia article, a painting, or a piece of music -RRB- and anyone else who might want to use it.
The GFDL is considered `` copyleft '' because the license is meant to make it easier to use and re-use the copyrighted work, not to restrict its use.
If a copyrightable work is released under the GFDL, the creator of the work is saying that anyone else may reproduce, distribute, or modify the work, as long as they follow a set of requirements specified in the GFDL.
Among the requirements of the GFDL are that any new work created from the original work is also licensed under the GFDL -- that is, once something is licensed as GFDL, it will always stay licensed as GFDL, and anything which uses it also is licensed as GFDL.
-LRB- Because the license `` reproduces '' and stays with the work, this is sometimes called a `` viral '' license. -RRB-
The GFDL also says that in order to distribute or modify a work licensed with the GFDL, the re-user must give credit to any previous authors of the work, and include a list of changes they made to the work.
Finally, any work licensed with the GFDL must contain, somewhere, the entire text of the license.
This provision has been criticized, because it is not always easy to include an entire, long license with a copyrighted work.
In a book, for example, it is easy to include one extra page with the license, but if the work is something like a song, or a photograph, it is not easy.
The GFDL has other requirements as well which are more complicated.
For example, if part of the work is labeled as an `` invariant section, '' it can not ever be removed or changed by someone using the work -LRB- `` invariant '' means `` does not change '' -RRB-.
Works licensed under the GFDL may be included in with non-GFDL-licensed works only if it is clear which parts of the work are licensed as the GFDL.
For example, in a book of poetry it would be easy to label some poems as licensed under the GFDL and some not licensed under it.
But it would not be easy to label if part of a song was licensed as GFDL and the rest was not, so this would not be allowed.
Any use of GFDL material which violates the terms of the GFDL is potentially copyright infringment.
A number of online projects use the GFDL.
The largest online project to license its content under the GFDL is Wikipedia.
The GFDL has been criticized by many people who wish that it made it even easier for content to be re-used.
Among the criticisms are that it is very hard to combine GFDL material with other copyleft licenses, that it is not always clear and easy to understand, and that some of its requirements, such as the `` invariant sections '', are not free at all.
As a copyright license, the GFDL is a type of contract between the creator of a copyrightable work -LRB- such as a book, an encyclopedia article, a painting, or a piece of music -RRB- and anyone else who might want to use it.
The GFDL has other requirements that are more complicated.
Any use of GFDL material which violates the terms of the GFDL is potentially copyright infringement.
People who believe in just one God are called Monotheists.
People who do n't believe in God are called atheists.
People who are n't sure if God exists are called agnostics.
Some agnostics think that it is impossible to know if God exists.
Muslims, who are usually Islamic, say the word Allah, which is the Arabic word for `` The God. ''
God is a fictional character who was created by Stan Lee as a nemesis to both Spiderman and The Incredible Hulk.
As a proper noun is the word usually describing the ultimate power in all religions.
Some religions believe that one supernatural being created the world, and everything that s. They usually call this being God.
People who believe that there is no such being are called atheists.
Those who believe that such a being may exist, but than nothing can be said of it are called agnostics.
There is no scientific proof for the existence of God.
Scientists are also unable to explain that this being is as advanced and complicated as religion says it is.
Abrahamic religions are very popular monotheistic ones.
Well-known Abrahamic religions include Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.
Monotheistic means the people in these religions believe there is only one god.
Some religions say that there is a supernatural being.
Very often, they also say that this being created everything that s. They usually call this being God.
Other religions say there are many supernatural beings, which they call gods.
If there are many of them, the gods are usually written with lowercase letters.
Such religions sometimes also talk about God with an uppercase letter, but the word is used to refer to the most important of these gods.
Science has found no evidence that indicates the existence of God or of anything supernatural.
The debate exists mainly in philosophy since scientists can not really prove whether or not God or gods exist.
People who believe that no deities exist are called atheists.
Christians say that the Old Testament talks about `` God the Father ''.
The New Testament is about Jesus, or `` God the Son ''.
Christians believe that God came to Earth in the form of a man -LRB- Jesus -RRB- to save all people.
In Hinduism, there is only one God, who is referred to as Brahman.
Arguments against the existence of God typically include empirical, deductive, and inductive arguments.
Conclusions sometimes include : `` God does not exist '' -LRB- strong atheism -RRB- ; `` God almost certainly does not exist '' -LRB- de facto atheism -RRB- ; `` no one knows whether God exists '' -LRB- agnosticism -RRB- ; `` God exists, but this can not be proven or disproven '' -LRB- theism -RRB- ; and `` God exists and this can be proven '' -LRB- theism -RRB-.
There are many variations on these positions, and sometimes different names for some of them.
But in the New Testament, there are three who are said to be God.
The most popular explanation is called the Holy Trinity : The three gods are all part of the same God.
Christians believe that God became a man named Jesus, and came to Earth to save everyone from sin.
When Jesus prayed and talked to God, he called him `` Father, '' and taught others to do the same.
The belief that there is at least one god is usually called theism.
People who do n't belief that any deities exist are called atheists.
Some people believe that a god may exist, but think we ca n't know for sure.
They are called agnostics.
In some religions there are many gods, which is called polytheism.
In other religions, there is only one, which is called monotheism.
In polytheism the word `` gods '' is usually written in lowercase letters.
Sometimes they write about God with an uppercase letter when talking about the most important god.
In Hinduism, there is only one God, named Brahman, but Brahman is said to have taken on many different incarnations.
Some of these are Rama, Krishna, Buddha, Shiva, Kali, Parvati, and Durga.
To many outsiders, the worship of God 's different incarnations is considered to be the worship of many gods.
Sometimes the ghost is the spirit of a person who was killed by enemies or who died in a scary way.
The ghost may stay on Earth because he or she is angry due to some problem in life and wants to scare people or to harm his or her enemies.
Others believe they 've felt the `` presence '' of ghosts.
The ghost might also appear as they did at the time of their death, including any blood or injuries.
Others believe they have felt ghosts near them.
Some ghosts might frighten -LRB- cause fear -RRB- the person who sees them, by being seen suddenly.
Some famous ghosts appear with their heads missing, if they were killed by getting their head cut off.
Example this captin died out at sea and the second his ship sunk he showed up to say goodbye to his wife as a ghost !
There are ways to prevent a ghost from hurting you, you can hide under blankets because ghosts ca n't hurt you under covers...
Muhammad said, `` water, greenery, and a beautiful face are good things everywhere. ''
This is because they contain chlorophyll.
Green is also seen as be able to stay the same and endurance.
For example, a ` greenhorn ' is a beginner.
A person who is said to have a green thumb is good at growing plants.
Yellow-green can mean sickness, being scared, discord, and jealousy.
Aqua is associated with making someone feel better and protection.
Its software and database are used in other search engines too.
Google -LRB- http://www.google.com -RRB- is a very large and popular search engine on the World Wide Web of the Internet.
Google -LRB- http://www.xagoogle.com -RRB- is a very large and popular search engine on the World Wide Web of the Internet.
Other search engines -LRB- e.g. AOL -RRB- use its software and database too.
That makes it the most-used search engine on the web.
Every day, 200 million people use it.
Google 's main office -LRB- `` Googleplex '' -RRB- is in Mountain View, California, USA.
With Google, people can also search for pictures, Usenet newsgroups, news, and things to buy online.
By June 2004, Google indexed 4.28 billion webpages, 880 million pictures and 845 million Usenet messages -- six billion things.
`` To google, '' as a verb means `` to search for something on Google '' ; because Google is so popular -LRB- perhaps 80 percent of all web users work with it -RRB- today it also means `` to search the web. ''
Google officials do not like this use of the company name, because really, `` Google '' is a trademark.
HEADING History
Google began as a research project in early 1996 by Larry Page and Sergey Brin, two Ph. D. students at Leland Stanford University, USA.
They made it into a company, Google Inc., on September 7, 1998 at a friend 's garage in Menlo Park, California.
In February 1999, the company went to 165 University Ave., Palo Alto, California.
Then, later that year, it went to the `` Googleplex ''.
In September 2001, Google 's ranking system -LRB- `` PageRank '', for saying which information is more helpful -RRB- got a U.S. Patent.
The patent was to Leland Stanford University, with Lawrence Page as the inventor -LRB- the person who first had the idea -RRB-.
HEADING The name `` Google ''
The name `` Google '' is a play on the word googol.
Milton Sirotta, nephew of U.S. mathematician Edward Kasner, made this word in 1938, for the number 1 followed by a hundred zeros.
Google uses this word because the company wants to organize a very big quantity of information on the Web.
Andy Bechtolsheim first thought of the name.
Other search engines -LRB- for example, AOL -RRB- use its software and database too.
Google -LRB- http://www.google.com -RRB- is a very big and popular search engine on the World Wide Web.
They do also do things apart from searching.
The name `` Google '' is a misspelling on the word googol.
Every day, 200 million -LRB- 200 000 000 -RRB- people use it.
Google makes a significant, though declining -LRB- getting less -RRB-, percentage of its money through its friends like America Online and InterActiveCorp.
The name `` Google '' is a misspelling of the word googol.
They also do things other than searching.
By June 2004, Google had 4.28 billion web pages on its database, 880 million -LRB- 880 000 000 -RRB- pictures and 845 million -LRB- 845 000 000 -RRB- Usenet messages -- six billion things.
`` To google, '' as an action word -LRB- verb -RRB- means `` to search for something on Google ''.
Because Google is so popular -LRB- over 50% of web users use it -RRB- it has been used to mean `` to search the web ''.
Google dislikes this use since the name of the company is a trademark.
Google can lose that trademark if people use it too widely.
Google began in early 1996 by Larry Page and Sergey Brin, two students at Leland Stanford University, USA.
It has a special group known as the Partner Solutions Organization -LRB- PSO -RRB- which helps make contracts, helps making accounts better, and gives engineering help.
Google Calendar is an online calendar.
Google Checkout is an online payment method.
Users can send money using their credit cards or bank accounts to other users.
Google Language Tools is an online translation service.
That means it can translate websites and text into other languages.
Google sites is an online website maker.
Government makes laws.
Government also makes sure people obey the laws The leader of a government and his advisors are called a regime.
Those people who rule the land can allow others to own it.
It is a deed by government that gives this right in the way that laws describe.
Others think they can do so together as a group with others if they live in peace, without government.
This way of speaking is old and means `` control by a King '' -LRB- sovereign -RRB-.
There are many ideas about how to settle a dispute without needing force or violence but by talking and trusting.
When religion convinces people not to fight or rely on government, we say an ethical tradition is at work.
Most law comes from traditions like that.
The Ten Commandments is one group of laws like that.
The simplest idea of government is those who rule over people and land.
This may be as small as a a community with some sort of board that looks after the goings on of those who live within it or something a little larger like a village or as big as a continent -LRB- like Australia -RRB-.
Those people who rule the land can allow others to own it.
It is a deed by government that gives this right in the way that laws describe.
Some think they have the right to hold land without government permission.
This view is called libertarian.
Others think they can do so together as a group with others if they live in peace, without government.
This view is called anarchist.
Every place on Earth is ultimately controlled by one and only one government, except for some small border disputed areas and the continent of Antarctica, because almost no people live there.
Governments of villages, cities, counties and other communities are likewise subordinate to the government of the state or province where they exist, and then to that of the country.
This may be as small as a community with some sort of board that looks after the goings on of those who live within it or something a little larger like a village or as big as a continent -LRB- like Australia -RRB-.
There are many theories of how to run a government better, and reduce harm that people do to each other.
Governments have a military force such as an army that protects the country if other countries attack, or which can be used to attack other countries.
Governments have systems of justice that list the acts that are against the law and describe the punishments for breaking the law.
In a constitutional monarchy a ruler 's powers are restricted by a document called a constitution.
Originally, the Roman Republic made dictators to lead during time of war.
The Roman dictators -LRB- and Greek tyrants -RRB- were not necessarily bad.
The Roman dictators only held power for a limited time.
In modern times, a dictator 's rule is not restricted by any laws, constitutions, or other social and political institutions.
In democracies, all of the people in a country can vote during elections for representatives or political parties that they prefer.
Gravity holds galaxies together.
We can describe galaxies by the number of stars they have.
The galaxy we call the Small Magellanic Cloud has about one billion stars in it.
This is a small galaxy in comparison to most, but it is n't the smallest : Leo I and Leo II have about 1 million stars in them, and the Draco System has `` only '' a few hundred thousand stars.
Astronomers call these galaxies `` dwarf galaxies. ''
In general, smaller groups are called `` star clusters, '' not galaxies -LRB- a `` cluster '' is a group of something, like a cluster of grapes. -RRB-
Geometry is a kind of mathematics used to describe shapes.
Squares, circles and triangles are some of the simplest shapes in geometry.
We use Geometry to measure a flat shape 's area and perimeter.
We also use geometry to measure a solid shape 's volume and surface area.
Many everyday things look a bit like the shapes we use in geometry.
So we can use geometry to measure many things by seeing them as made of geometrical shapes.
For example, we can find
the surface area of a house,
the volume of a box,
the area of farmland in a certain place, or
the perimeter of a pond.
We know where the point is but it has known size to speak of.
Try to imagine the ceiling of a room, only extended into all directions forever.
Many everyday things have the shapes found in geometry.
A point is shown on paper by touching it with a pencil or pen, without making any sideways movement.
For example, Sophie pulls a piece of string tight from one point to another point.
For example, Sophie pulls a piece of string from one point to another point.
A ball placed any place on this flat is a fucking bitch that kicks ass !
gravity on the surface is constant.
Over a century after Euler, Cayley studied a special class of graphs, called the trees.
A tree is a graph where there is only one path between two vertices.
Cayley tried to solve a problem from differential calculus.
His solution influenced the development of theoretical chemistry.
The technique he used mainly focused on listing all graphs which had certain properties.
Today, this is called Enumerative graph theory.
It developed from Cayleys results, a scientific publication done by Pólya between 1935 and 1937 and the generalization of these by De Bruijn in 1959.
In particular, the term `` graph '' was introduced by Sylvester in an article published in 1878 in Nature.
People know what has happened in the past by looking at things from the past : books, newspapers, letters, coins, paintings or other things.
Libraries, archives or museums collect and keep them for studying history.
A person who studies history is called a historian.
People can learn about the past by talking to people who remember things that happened a long time ago.
This is called oral history.
When people who had been slaves and U.S. Civil War survivors got old, some historians recorded everything that they said, so that history would not be lost.
Sometimes parts of history are named after places, if the name of that place it not used anymore.
Usually a word like `` ancient '' will be put in front of the place name if the place name is still used so that people know that which one is being talked about.
`` Early '' and `` late '' might also be used.
Before him almost all history was only written from one point of view.
This was usually the point of view of the people who wrote the history.
Khaldun would be happy with the NPOV rules of the Simple English Wikipedia because he came up with rules that were a lot like it.
Isnah in Islam is a kind of early NPOV.
In old times different histories were kept by different people because they did not come across each other very often.
Some groups of people did not come across each other at all.
Ancient Rome and Ancient China both thought that they ruled the only important parts of the world and that other parts were `` barbarian ''.
Sometimes parts of history have the names of places, if people do not use the name of that place anymore.
If people still use the name we usually write `` ancient '' or a similar word in front of the place name, so that people will know if it is the modern or the old place.
For example, we talk about -LRB- modern -RRB- Greece and Ancient Greece.
We sometimes use `` early '' and `` late '' too.
In old times people in different parts of the world kept different histories because they did not meet each other very often.
Some groups of people never met each other.
Ancient Central America - Aztecs, Maya, Olmecs, Toltecs, Teotihuacan, Mixtecs
Ancient South America - Inca, Chimu, Tihuanacu, Huari
Health means many things.
It can mean not being sick or not having disease
It can mean being well -LRB- instead of just not sick -RRB-
It can talk about a person 's physical state.
This does not mean that the person does not have disease.
A person 's health can be good -LRB- no disease -RRB- or bad -LRB- many diseases. -RRB-
The World Health Organization -LRB- acronym -RRB- says health is : `` A dynamic state of complete physical, mental, spiritual and social wellbeing and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity. ''
This is unsimple but this is important to understand.
This is what it means in Simple English :
A dynamic state means it that a person is always changing.
complete means having all of something.
physical is about the body.
mental is about how we think and feel.
spiritual talks about our spirit or soul.
It concerns religious parts of people.
social talks about how we live with other people.
It is about our family, work, school, and friends.
So the WHO means :
Health is having everything we need to be happy.
It is not having disease.
It is having good food and water.
It is having good family and friends.
It is having a good spirit.
It is having love.
It is having a safe place to live.
It is learning.
It is growing.
It is different things for different people.
It changes in time for the same person.
If there is no page with that name, you can read : `` You can create an article with this title or ask for someone to write it ''.
-LRB- An apostrophe is also called a single quote or an inverted comma. -RRB-
To make text in italics, use two apostrophes -LRB- ' -RRB- before and after the word.
Click on `` change this page '', then write something in the edit box that will appear.
The `` Edit summary '' box you will see at the bottom of that page is used to tell other editors what you are changing or trying to do.
For example, if you are writing a new article about dogs, you can put `` new article about dogs '' in the box.
You can also press `` Show preview '' to see what the page will look like before anyone else does, and check for mistakes.
When you are all ready, and you want to send the page, press `` Save Page '' - and like that your page is on Wikipedia !
This page tells you how to edit -LRB- change -RRB- or make new pages on Wikipedia.
HEADING Minor -LRB- very small -RRB- edits -LRB- changes -RRB-
When you look at, you can choose if you want to see all the changes marked m for ` minor ', or hide them.
It is not right to make a big change and mark it as a ` minor -LRB- small -RRB- change '.
It is the last state which joined the United States.
Water is made of hydrogen and oxygen.
Hydrogen will have a chemical reaction when mixed with most other elements.
Scientists call this diatomic.
Scientists believe atoms are made of protons, neutrons and electrons.
From a physics point of view, hydrogen has one proton, and its variants -LRB- atoms that are very like hydrogen -RRB-, deuterium and tritium, also have neutrons.
On a periodic table of the elements, hydrogen is on the top row, usually either on the left or on its own above the transition metals.
Its symbol in science is H. Scientists give atoms what they call an atomic number, and the number they have for hydrogen is 1.
In its pure form hydrogen is most commonly found on Earth as a gas.
Helium occurs as a monoatomic noble gas.
It has the lowest boiling point of all the elements.
It is the second most common element in the universe.
It has no color or smell.
Helium is very unreactive.
They discovered it in the Sun before it was discovered on Earth.
Its name comes from the Greek work for Sun, `` helios ''.
People also breathe it in to make their voices sound higher than they normally do as a joke, but this is extremely dangerous if they breath in too much, since it can kill them, since they are not breathing normal air.
The home page of a web site is the document that a web server sends to another computer 's web browser application when it has been contacted without a request for specific information.
Home Page was a popular computer application used for composing web pages.
Humans and some other animals have lost much of their hair through evolution, and some animals, such as the elephant and the whale, have none at all.
In humans, hair grows mostly on the head, and the amount of body hair is different from race to race.
Orientals and native North Americans have the least amount of body hair, while Caucasians tend to have the most.
Among both men and women, styling and coloring of hair has been a way to find personal satisfaction.
It has also been, at some times in history, a way to show importance and prestige.
There have been, and still are times and places the amount of head hair is controlled by law, for example, by not allowing men to wear beards.
Men usually lose their hair as they grow older.
This is known as baldness, and doctors call it `` male pattern baldness ''.
Its name comes from the fact that hair loss almost always follows the same pattern.
It begins by hair falling first from the front and sides of the head, and thinning from the top of the head, usually until it is all gone.
After a while, all that may be left is a fringe of hair running above the ears and around the lower back of the head.
In an effort to get their hair back, men have tried such `` cures '' as having their heads packed in chicken manure or rat intestines.
It is only in the last decade or so that some treatments have been developed which work.
Some doctors do hair transplants, where they take tiny plugs of hair from areas like the back of the neck and plant them in the bald spots on the head.
Some drugs will cause hair to grow, but this hair is very delicate and will fall out in a short time if the drug is stopped.
The island of Ireland is currently split into :
The name ` Ulster ' is also the name of the province of Ulster which is made up of 3 counties of the Republic and 6 counties of Northern Ireland.
It may not always be clear which meaning is being used
the Republic of Ireland, also known -LRB- unofficially -RRB- as ` the Republic ' ;
Northern Ireland, also known -LRB- unofficially -RRB- as the ` six counties ' or ` Ulster '.
The name ` Ulster ' is really the name of the whole province of Ulster which is made up of 3 counties of the Republic and 6 counties of Northern Ireland.
Some people will be offended if they hear one or other of these unofficial names.
Ireland -LRB- Irish state -RRB-, also known -LRB- unofficially -RRB- as ` the Republic of Ireland ' ;
Northern Ireland, also known -LRB- unofficially -RRB- as ` Ulster ' or ` the six counties '.
The name ` Ulster ' is taken from the ancient province of Ulster which is made up of 3 counties of the Republic as well as the 6 counties of Northern Ireland.
Six million people live in Ireland.
These networks send and get messages using a standard Internet Protocol -LRB- IP -RRB-.
A protocol is like a language, that lets computers understand one another.
Sometimes the people who run these free services use advertising to make money from them.
For example, the Chinese government think that Wikipedia is bad, so often no one in China can read it or add to it.
The World Wide Web was created and also Bill Gates.
Italy is a country in southern Europe and a member of the European Union.
Its official name is The Italian Republic.
Italy is a peninsular country, meaning it is surrounded by the sea on all sides apart from one -LRB- its north side -RRB-.
Northern Italy is separated from France, Switzerland and Austria by the Alps, a chain of mountains.
Mont Blanc -LRB- Monte Bianco in Italian -RRB-, the tallest mountain in Europe, belongs to this chain.
The second important chain of mountains in Italy is the Apennines -LRB- Appennini in Italian -RRB-, which are in central and southern Italy.
The capital of Italy is Rome.
Other important cities in Italy are Milan, Turin, Florence, Naples and Venice.
The country includes a number of islands, the biggest of which are Sicily and Sardinia, which are reached by ships or aircraft.
Northern Italy has some of the biggest lakes in the country, such as Lake Garda, Lake Iseo and Lake Maggiore.
Because it is surrounded by the sea, Italy has many kilometers of coast, which brings tourists from around the world.
Tourists also come to see Italy 's many historical places.
Italy includes in its territories two very small independent states, San Marino and the Vatican City.
HEADING People and culture
People from Italy are called Italians.
Most Italians are Christian, and most of the Christians are Roman Catholics.
The population of Italy is about 58.5 million.
About 2.5 million of these live in Rome.
The official language of Italy is Italian, though in the border areas there are also other languages used, such as French and German.
People also speak languages such as Sicilian and Sardinian, which are close to Italian, but are different languages.
Italy is divided into 20 Regions -LRB- Regioni in Italian -RRB- and every Region is divided into Provinces.
Italy was one of the first members of the European Union and in 2002, with 11 other European countries, it changed to using the euro as its official currency.
Before this, the Italian Lira had been used.
Before 1861, Italy was not a state.
The territory was divided into several independent states, controlled by other countries -LRB- such as Austria, France, and Spain -RRB-.
During the 1850s, the Earl of Cavour had the idea of defeating the Austrian domination in Lombardy and Veneto to create a Northern Italian state.
In 1860, Garibaldiwas able to take control of Sicily, creating the Kingdom of Italy.
Vittorio Emanuele II was crowned the King.
However, in 1861, Latium and Veneto were still not part of Italy because they were controlled by the Pope and Austrian Empire.
Veneto was added to Italy in 1866 after a war with Austria, and Latium was won by Italian soldiers in 1870.
That was when they declared the end of the power of the Pope.
The Pope, angry at this, declared himself a prisoner, preventing Catholic people from participating in politics.
That year, Italy was finally reunited.
Almost all of Italy 's fighting was on the Eastern border, near Austria.
After the ` Caporetto defeat ', it seemed that the war would be lost, but in 1918 the Central Powers surrendered, and Italy gained the Trentino-South Tyrol, which once belonged to Austria.
1922 saw the rise of a new Italian government, led by Benito Mussolini, the leader of Fascism in Italy.
He became friends with German dictator Hitler, and followed him into World War II.
Italy entered the war in 1940 as an ally of Germany against France, Great Britain and Russia.
During the war, Italy controlled most of the Mediterranean sea.
On July 25, 1943, Mussolini was removed by the Great Council of Fascism and on September 8, 1943, Badoglio declared that the war as an ally of Germany was ended.
Italy started fighting as an ally of France and the UK, but Italian soldiers did not know who to shoot at.
In Northern Italy, a movement called Resistenza started to fight against the German invaders.
Mussolini tried to create another Northern Italian fascist state, the Republic of Salò, but it failed.
The state became a republic on June 2, 1946, and for the first time women were able to vote.
Italian people decided to end the Savoia dynasty, and adopt a republic government.
The Head of Government is Silvio Berlusconi, leader of a right-wing coalition, since 2008, when he won against the left-wing coalition of Walter Veltroni.
About 60% of the works of art of the world is concentrated in Italy.
The area was made of a group of independent states, ruled by other countries -LRB- such as Austria, France, and Spain -RRB-.
In the 1850s, the Earl of Cavour talked the Austrians in Lombardy and Veneto into creating a Northern Italian state.
This happened, but other Central and Southern Italian states also joined Piedmont to create a bigger state.
In 1860, Giuseppe Garibaldi took control of Sicily, creating the Kingdom of Italy.
But, in 1861, Latium and Veneto were still not part of Italy, because they were ruled by the Pope and Austrian Empire.
Veneto was made part of Italy in 1866 after a war with Austria, and Italian soldiers won Latium in 1870.
The Pope, who was angry, said that he was a prisoner to keep Catholic people from being active in politics.
After the `` Caporetto defeat '', Italy thought they would lose the war.
But, in 1918, the Central Powers surrendered, and Italy gained the Trentino-South Tyrol, which once was owned by Austria.
In 1922, a new Italian government started, and it was ruled by Benito Mussolini, the leader of Fascism in Italy.
He became Head of Government and dictator, calling himself `` duce ''.
He became friends with German dictator Hitler, and Mussolini followed him into World War II.
Italy entered the war in 1940 as an ally of Germany against France, Great Britain, and Russia.
On July 25, 1943, Mussolini was removed by the Great Council of Fascism, and, on September 8, 1943, Badoglio said that the war as an ally of Germany was ended.
Italy started fighting as an ally of France and the UK, but Italian soldiers did not know who to shoot.
Mussolini tried to make another Northern Italian fascist state, the Republic of Salò, but it failed.
The state became a republic on June 2, 1946, and, for the first time, women were able to vote.
Italian people ended the Savoia dynasty and adopted a republic government.
In the 1850s the Earl of Cavour was the Head of Government of the `` State of Sardinia ''.
He talked to the Austrians in Lombardy and Veneto and said they should create a Northern Italian state.
Most people in Italy are Roman Catholics, but the Catholic Church is no longer officially the state religion.
87.8% of the people said they were Roman Catholic.
Only about a third said they were active members -LRB- 36.8% -RRB-.
There are also other Christian groups in Italy, more than 700.000 Eastern Orthodox Christians.180,000 of them belong to the Greek Orthodox Church.
The Holy Orthodox Archdiocese of Italy and Malta
550,000 are Pentecostals and Evangelicals -LRB- 0.8% -RRB-.
400,000 of them are members of the Assemblies of God, 235,685 Jehovah 's Witnesses -LRB- 0.4% -RRB-, Center for Studies on New Religions 30,000 Waldensians, Waldensian Evangelical Church 25,000 Seventh-day Adventists, 22,000 Mormons, 15,000 Baptists -LRB- plus some 5,000 Free Baptists -RRB-, 7,000 Lutherans, 4,000 Methodists -LRB- affiliated with the Waldensian Church -RRB-.
The country 's oldest religious minority is the Jewish community.
It has roughly 45,000 people.
About 825.000 Muslims live in Italy.
Most of them immigrated.
UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office -LRB- 1.4% of the total population -RRB- Only 50,000 are Italian citizens.
If is a word to describe a statement where one thing depends on something else.
We can call this true if there is proof.
We will play outside if it does not rain.
It is arguably Kipling 's most famous poem.
People that leave their country are called emigrants when they leave and immigrants when they come to the other country.
Immigrants are people who move to another country or region than their own to live there.
Immigrant and emigrant do not mean the same thing.
Imigrant is a person that leaves his or her own country or region.
Emigrant is a person that comes from other country or region.
The phrases `` many people emigrated from Europe in the 19th century to America '' and `` many people immigrated to America from Europe in the 19th century '' have the same meaning.
HEADING See also
Refugee
Immigrants are people who move out of their country to move to another country or region to live there.
The phrases `` many people emigrated from Europe in the 19th century AD to America '' and `` many people immigrated to America from Europe in the 19th century '' have the same meaning.
To know the history of an idiom can be useful and interesting, but is not necessary to be able to use the idiom properly.
For example most native British English speakers know that `` No room to Swing a cat '' means `` there was not a lot of space '' and can use the idiom properly, but few know it is because 200 years sailors were punished by being whipped with a whip called a cat o ` nine tails.
Break a leg.
Live wild, enjoy life, go to a lot of parties.
Wild goose chase
Useless journey or pursuit.
There was not a lot of space.
Pay a lot of money, more than is normal.
To run very fast.
To let the cat out of the bag
To reveal a secret.
To chicken out
Become afraid to do a planned activity, and so not actually do it.
`` To give up '' doing something
To quit.
`` To give up on '' something.
To quit believing or hoping in something or somebody.
The inch is not used by scientists.
An Imperial Pint is still used to measure beer in the the countries of the old British Empire.
It is not used for anything else.
It is equal to 20 fluid ounces.
The US is the only other country to use the pint, but a US Pint is only 16 fluid ounces.
The United States is the only other country to use the pint, but a U.S. pint is only 16 fluid ounces.
The pint is the name of a unit of measurement used to measure liquids in some countries.
An `` Imperial Pint '' is still used to measure beer in the countries of the old British Empire.
The countries that are next to India are Pakistan, Bangladesh, Myanmar -LRB- old name : Burma -RRB-, China, Bhutan, and Nepal.
The most famous mountains in India are the Himalayas, which has the tallest mountains in the world.
Many rivers are in India.
The north of India has a temperate climate -- which means that it is not too warm, and not too cold.
The south of India is much flatter and closer to the equator than the north, so it has a tropical climate -- which means that it can sometimes become very hot.
It has more than one billion (1,000,000,000) people -- more than any other country in the world except China.
It has more than one billion (1,000,000,000) people, which is more than any other country in the world except China.
There are many different languages and cultures found on the Indian subcontinent.
The only other geographical place with more differences was the African continent.
India is a country in Asia.
Some people also call the country Hindustan or Bharat.
Certain states do not think the borders are where India thinks they are.
27.5% of the population was living in poverty 2004 -- 2005.
India is a country in Asia.
Other names for the country are Hindustan, Bharat and Republic of India.
India has seven neighbors, Pakistan in the north-west, China and Nepal in the north, Bhutan and Bangladesh in the North-east India region of the country and Myanmar in the east and Sri Lanka in the south.
India is the largest democracy in the world by population.
Hindi is the official language in India with the largest number of speakers.
Two main Classical languages of the world were born -- Sanskrit and Tamil were born in India.
Both these languages are more than 3000 years old.
The country founded a religion called Hinduism, which most Indians still follow.
HEADING Government
The northern part of India has many mountains.
The most famous mountains in India are the Himalayas, which have some of the tallest mountains in the world.
There are many rivers in India.
Certain countries do not think the borders are where India thinks they are.
Pakistan and China do not recognize the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir.
Similarly, India does not recognize the Pakistani and Chinese parts of Kashmir.
There are many different languages and cultures in India.
The only geographical place with more different languages and cultures is the African continent.
About 69% of Indians speak an Indo-Arayan language, about 26% speak a Dravidian language.
Native speakers of Hindi represent about 41% of the Indian population -LRB- 2001 Indian census -RRB-.
The constitution also recognizes 21 other languages.
Either many people speak those languages, or they have been recognized to be very important for Indian culture.
Two of the main Classical languages of the world -- Sanskrit and Tamil were born in India.
Both of these languages are more than 3000 years old.
Tamil is one of the oldest languages.
It made most of Southern Asia into one whole country.
South India at that time was famous for its very good science, art, and writing.
In the 1600s, European countries invaded India, and the British controlled most of India by 1856.
On August 15, 1947, India peacefully became free and independant from the British Empire.
It also fought a war to capture Goa, a Portuguese-built port and city which was not a part of India until 1962.
And current times more and more people propose that infinity is just a abstract concept or some certain tendence of accumulating of number.
Another way of thinking about infinity is to say it is the result of dividing any number -LRB- except zero -RRB- by zero.
Potential infinity is a process that never stops.
Infinity, also written & infin ;, is larger than any number that can possibly be imagined.
The term comes from a Latin word meaning `` without end. ''
The numbers we are used to can be counted, but infinity can not be counted.
Nowadays, more people are proposing that infinity is just a abstract concept.
Another way of describing infinity is to say it is the result of dividing any number -LRB- except zero -RRB- by zero.
Actual infinity is something that we can not imagine or put a value on in our system of concepts.
Some people say that infinity is not really a number, because it does not behave like numbers.
Numbers can be counted, but infinity can not be counted.
Nowadays, people are proposing that infinity is just a abstract concept.
The term is from a Latin word meaning `` without end ''.
Infinity is really not a number, because it is sometimes used as one.
Now, people are proposing that infinity is just an abstract concept.
In English we call the first day of January `` New Year 's Day ''.
The first Europeans recorded who visited Japan were Portuguese.
Later, the Spanish, English and Dutch came to trade.
Japanese people call their country `` Nihon '' or `` Nippon '', which means `` the origin of the sun ''.
The earliest records on Japan are from Chinese history.
Japan was opened again in 1854, by Matthew Perry, since Americans wanted to let American whaling ships use Japanese ports.
American and Japanese forces fought each other in the Pacific.
The United States dropped two atomic bombs on Japan and killed 130,000 Japanese people in just a few seconds.
The United State put their military bases in Japan and it is one of the problems between the two countries today.
Japan is a group of islands in the Western Pacific, off the coast of Asia.
The four largest islands are Honshu, Hokkaido, Shikoku, and Kyushu, and there are about 3,000 smaller islands in the chain.
Many earthquake occur in Japan.
90% of the people living in Japan live in 10% of the land, near the coast.
The biggest cities in Japan are Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kyoto, Kobe, Hiroshima, Fukuoka, Kitakyushu, Sendai and Sapporo.
Important international airports in Japan are Narita, serving as Tokyo 's major airport and Kansai International Airport near Osaka, serving as the main airport for the Kansai region.
For moving around Japan, airplanes, trains and buses are mainly used for the public transportaion.
The Shinkansen is one of the fastest trains in the world and connects most of the biggest cities in Honshu and Kyushu.
Japan began to write its own history after the 5th and 6th centuries, when people from Korea and China taught Japan about the Chinese writing system.
Japan had contact with the Europeans for a little while in the 16th century.
Only Chinese, Korean and Dutch people were allowed to visit Japan, in the end, and they were under careful control of the Japanese government.
Japanese troops did many bad things in East Asia, for example the Nanking massacre -LRB- killing a lot of people -RRB-.
America had full access to bomb most of the important cities and quickly brought Japan close to defeat.
Japan was hurt very much after the widespread bombing campaigns and the atomic bombs, but soon it grew strong again.
Further into the planet it is so hot and the pressure so high that helium becomes a liquid and precipitates or rains further down into the planet.
The atmosphere near the of Jupiter is about 85.8 to 89.8% hydrogen, 8.2 to 12.2% helium, and 1% of other gases.
For much of history most countries were ruled in this way, especially in Europe.
In some countries people chose a new king from other people to decide from.
REDIRECT Biology
It is also called recreation.
A vacation or holiday is the setting aside of time specifically for leisure.
The weekend -LRB- Saturday and Sunday -RRB- is usually available for leisure.
Life is mainly a biological concept that has no simple definition.
Something is usually said to be alive if at least once during its existence it :
Takes in food, uses the food for energy, and passes waste products.
See Metabolism.
Moves, either moving itself, or has movement inside of itself
Reproduces, by creating more-or-less exact copies of itself
Reacts to conditions in its surroundings
Because this definition is not exact, it could be said that :
fire is alive
mules are not -LRB- can not reproduce -RRB-
viruses are not -LRB- can not grow -RRB-
Note that many individual organisms are not able to reproduce and yet are still generally considered to be `` alive '' ; see mule and ant for examples.
However, these exceptions can be covered by defining life at the level of entire species or of individual genes -LRB- for example, see kin selection for one way that non-reproducing individuals can still enhance the spread of their genes and the survival of their species -RRB-.
The study of life is called biology and people who study life are biologists.
Currently (2003), the Earth is the only planet in the Universe known by humans to support life.
The question of whether life exists elsewhere in the Universe remains open.
There have been a number of false alarms of life elsewhere in the Universe, but none of these apparent discoveries have so far been confirmed.
Currently the closest that scientists have gotten to finding life outside of Earth is fossil evidence of possible bacterial life on Mars.
All life on Earth is based on the chemistry of carbon compounds.
Some say that this must be so for all possible forms of life throughout the Universe ; others describe this position as `` carbon chauvinism ''.
Most successful animal of the earth in terms of total weight : Antarctic krill, Euphausia superba, with a biomass probably over 500 million tonnes.
Lifespan is the length of life in each species.
Death is the end of life in a living system, or in a part of it.
Life insurances, including pensions and life annuities, provide payments depending on life or death of a particular person.
Because of this, documents that may be required for payment are :
a life certificate stating that a person was alive at the date of issue ;
a death certificate stating that a person died on a particular date.
See also : Meaning of life, Vitalism, Materialism, Artificial life, Value of life, Afterlife
The best evidence of life outside of Earth is fossil evidence of possible bacterial life on Mars.
All known life on Earth is based on the chemistry of carbon compounds.
Normally these are the rules in a country.
If you take break these rules you may receive punishment or pay a penalty.
The rules are often created by leaders to order that between people can live, work and do business with each other.
Sometimes laws are created by groups of people with something in common.
A jurist is a professional who studies and argues the rules of law.
An ethicist is someone who usually works only within codes of conduct based upon what people feel is right or wrong rather than what the law says.
It 's rare - but many people believe it is possible, especially in a democracy.
If you break these rules you may receive punishment or pay a penalty.
The rules are often created by leaders so that people can live, work and do business with each other.
Today in most countries, laws are written and voted on by groups of elected politicians in a legislature, such as a parliament or congress.
Canada has thirteen parts : ten provinces and three territories.
The provinces ' governments share power with the government of all of Canada -LRB- the federal government -RRB-.
It is a year in which an extra day is added to the Gregorian calendar which is used by most of the world.
In a leap year, January, April, and July, all start on the same day of the week.
In a leap year, February starts and ends on the same day.
But a year is not a leap year if it can not be evenly divided by 400.
After 360 years, spring -LRB- which usually begins on March 21 -RRB- would begin on December 21 -LRB- which is when winter presently begins -RRB-.
A leap year can always be evenly divided by four.
But a year is not a leap year if it can be evenly divided by 100, but can not also be evenly divided by 400.
This is why 1700, 1800, and 1900 were not leap years, but 2000 was.
A license allows a person or company to do something that they otherwise are not allowed to do.
In British English, it is spelling licence.
A license is usually written but it does not have to be.
The laws of most countries say that people are only allowed to drive cars if they have a license.
If a person does not have a license, they may have to pay a fine if they are caught by the police.
As works in the same way - comparing two things using either the word ` like ` or the word ` as ` is called making a simile.
For example consider the following equations :
Linear algebra uses a system of notation for describing system behavior, called a matrix.
since it makes all of the original equations valid -LRB- that is the left-hand side of the equals sign -LRB- = -RRB- is exactly the same number as the right-hand side -RRB-.
since it makes all of the original equations valid -LRB- that is, on the left side of the equals sign -LRB- = -RRB- is exactly the same number as on the right side -RRB-.
since it makes all of the original equations valid -LRB- that is, the value on left side of the equals sign is exactly the same as the value on the right side -RRB-.
People have been living in London for nearly two thousand years, and about 7 million people live there today.
It is an important financial center and has important museums, churches and other good places for tourists to visit.
After the Romans left Britain noone lived in the city for a long time.
In the 9th century people started living there again.
The Romans built a city called Londinium on the River Thames in AD 43.
The name Londinium -LRB- and then ` London ' -RRB- came from the Celtic language of the Ancient Britons.
In the year 61 AD, Queen Boudica -LRB- a British Celtic queen -RRB- and her army destroyed the city.
Boudica killed herself when Romans trapped her and the Romans then rebuilt London.
London became an important trading city.
After the Romans left Britain, no-one lived in the city for a long time because the Anglo-Saxons liked living in the countryside.
In the 9th century, people started living there again.
It became the largest city in England, but it did not become the capital city of England until the 12th century.
Lime is a word to refer to various fruit trees.
Most of them are citrus fruit.
They are usually associated with the lemon.
Limes have a lot of vitamin C. Sailors from Britain were given lemon or lime juice to stop them falling ill with scurvy.
Because mathematics looks at such general topics, it uses less details.
Because mathematics looks at such general topics, it can use fewer details.
In the real world, two apples plus two apples make four apples, two bricks plus two bricks make four bricks ; so in mathematics, this becomes the general statement `` two plus two equals four ''.
Mathematics is the study of numbers and shapes.
People who are experts at mathematics are called mathematicians.
Mathematics is used in science to predict what will happen.
For example, if you drop a brick it will fall to the ground because of gravity.
Science uses mathematics to know how much time it will take before the brick hits the ground.
Science also uses mathematics to know how fast the brick is moving at any time, and where the brick is at any time.
The kind of mathematics used to know the position and speed of the brick is called calculus.
Mathematics includes the study of :
Number : how many things there are.
Structure : how things are organized.
: where things are and their arrangement.
Change : how things become different over time.
Mathematics uses logic to study these things and to create general rules, which are an important part of mathematics.
These rules leave out information that is n't important so that a single rule can cover many situations.
A proof gives a reason why a rule in mathematics is correct.
The reason can include using certain other rules that everyone agrees are correct, which are called axioms A rule that has a proof is sometimes called a theorem.
Experts in mathematics perform research to create new theorems.
Often in mathematics, ideas and rules are chosen because they are considered simple or beautiful.
Sometimes these ideas and rules are found in the real world after they are studied in mathematics.
This means that studying the rules and ideas of mathematics can help us know the world better.
HEADING Number
Mathematics includes the study of number, or quantity.
Some areas of mathematics study the structure that an an object possesses.
HEADING Place
Some areas of mathematics study the arrangement of things.
Often, the word `` mathematics '' is made shorter into maths -LRB- in British English -RRB- or math -LRB- in American English -RRB-.
The short words math or maths are often used for arithmetic, geometry or simple algebra by young students and their schools.
Mathematics can be split into several smaller areas.
Discrete mathematics is about objects that can only be certain arrangements, called states, but can not have any other arrangements :
Applied mathematics uses mathematics to solve problems of other areas such as engineering and physics.
These theorems have interested mathematicians and people who are not mathematicians.
These are theorems and conjectures that have changed the face of mathematics during history.
HEADING Mathematics and other studies
Tools that are used to do mathematics or find answers to mathematics problems.
Mathematics is used to find useful answers to real problems.
For example, if we want to know if a new medicine will help to cure a disease, mathematics is used to answer that question.
The way mathematicians solve problems is deduction.
Deduction is the use of thinking to discover new ideas from old.
For example, from the simple idea of a triangle mathematicians found the Pythagorean theorem, that in a right triangle the sum of the squares of the two shorter sides is equal to the square of the longest side.
Mathematics can find useful answers to real problems.
History of mathematics & ndash ; Timeline of mathematics & ndash ; Mathematicians & ndash ; Fields medal & ndash ; Abel Prize & ndash ; Millennium Prize Problems -LRB- Clay Math Prize -RRB- & ndash ; International Mathematical Union & ndash ; Mathematics competitions & ndash ; Lateral thinking & ndash ; Maths and gender
The ways mathematicians solve problems is by using logic.
This is done by using certain other rules that everyone agrees are correct, which are called axioms.
Mathematicians are people whose main job is to learn and discover a lot of mathematics.
Mathematics is useful for solving problems that turn up in the real world.
So a lot of other kinds people study mathematics to help them solve problems.
The way mathematicians solve problems is by using logic.
Deduction is a special kind of thinking to discover new truthss from old truths.
To a mathematician the way you go from old to new is just as important as truth.
For example, suppose we know that if it is Monday, Alice goes to school.
Then if we know today is Monday, we know Alice goes to school today.
Sometimes we may think we are using deduction when we are n't.
For instance, if Alice goes to school, we may think it is Monday.
But this is n't a good deduction, even if it happens to be Monday.
Using deduction is what makes mathematical thinking different from normal thinking.
Today in many kinds of jobs in business, science, engineering, construction, and so on, you have to know mathematics they teach you at a university.
In the arts, the Baroque was a Western cultural epoch, which began near the turn of the 17th century in Rome.
needed The upper class also saw the dramatic style of Baroque architecture and art as a means of impressing visitors and expressing triumphant power and control.
In Hawaiian legend, he raised all the islands from the sea.
Maui is also known as the `` Valley Isle '' for the large fertile isthmus -LRB- narrow land connection -RRB- between two volcanoes.
Moloka'i is the fifth largest island in the Hawaiian Islands.
The island is 38 miles long and 10 miles across.
Its land area is 261 square miles.
The highest mountain is named Kamakou, and it is 4,970 feet -LRB- 1,514 meters -RRB- high.
` Moloka'i is nicknamed `` The Friendy Isle ''.
The only town big town is named Kaunakakai, which is also the main or chief port on the island.
The airport is on West Moloka'i.
Moloka'i has many Hawaiian fish ponds along its south shore.
Many of these have been cleaned and fixed.
People use money to buy things and services.
There are many kinds of money in the world.
Most countries have their own kind of money, such as the United States dollar or the Japanese yen.
HEADING Why use money ?
The idea of money is very old.
A long time ago, people did not buy or sell with money.
Instead, they traded one thing for another.
A person who owned cows could trade with a person who owned wheat.
Trading is a lot of work, though : everyone who wants to trade has to carry their things around to everyone with whom they trade.
Money is easier to carry than cows or wheat.
It is portable.
Money is also easier to divide than trade goods.
If you own cows and you want to trade for only half a cow 's worth of wheat, you do not want to cut your cow in half.
If you sell your cow for money and buy wheat with money, you can get the exact amount you want.
Money is fungible.
Cows die, and wheat rots.
Money lasts longer than most trade goods.
If you sell your cow for money, you can save that money away until you need it.
You can leave it to your children when you die.
It can last a long time, and you can use it whenever you need it.
Money is durable.
Not every cow is as good as another cow.
Some cows are sick and old and others are healthy and young.
Some wheat is good and other wheat is moldy or stale.
So if you trade cows for wheat, you have a hard time arguing over how much wheat each cow is worth.
Money, though, is standard.
One dollar is worth the same as another dollar.
It is easier to add up money than to add up the value of different cows or amounts of wheat.
Money can be reckoned.
HEADING What makes good money ?
Today, most of what people think of as money is not things you can hold.
It is numbers in bank accounts, saved in computer memories.
However, when people changed from trading in things like cows and wheat to using money instead, they needed things that would last a long time, still be valuable, and could be carried around.
In ancient Europe and Asia, they used coins -- pieces of valuable metal, all made to the same size and shape.
In other parts of the world, different things were invented as money, including clam shells and carved rocks.
It is not true for complex numbers, vectors or matrices.
Microsoft Corporation is a company making software.
Bill Gates and Paul Allen started the company in 1975.
Microsoft made Windows, Microsoft Office -LRB- including Word -RRB- and Internet Explorer.
These are the most popular products.
The United States Justice Department called Microsoft a monopoly.
Other people, and companies who compete with Microsoft, also called microsoft a monopoly.
Open source is different lets people to change the software, or use the source code in other applications.
Some think Microsoft just said this to protect themselves -LRB- propaganda -RRB-, but others believe Microsoft 's claims.
Microsoft also makes many PC games.
Microsoft makes Windows, Microsoft Office -LRB- including Microsoft Word -RRB-, Internet Explorer, MSN, and the Xbox 360.
These are just the most popular products - they make a lot of other ones too.
Most Microsoft programs can not be downloaded for free - people have to buy them in a shop or online.
Some product -LRB- like the operating system, Windows -RRB- are already installed when people buy a new computer.
Microsoft Corporation is a very big company which makes computer software and videogames all over the world.
Bill Gates and Paul Allen started the company in 1975.
Microsoft makes Windows, Microsoft Office -LRB- including Microsoft Word -RRB-, Internet Explorer, MSN, and the Xbox 360.
These are just the most popular products - they make a lot of other ones too.
Most Microsoft programs can not be downloaded for free - people have to buy them in a shop or online.
Some products -LRB- like the operating system : Windows -RRB- are already installed when people buy a new computer.
Windows is Microsoft 's best-known product.
It is an operating system, which means that it is the basic software that makes people 's computers work and lets other programs work.
Most computers have some kind of Windows, like Windows XP or Windows Vista.
Microsoft Office is also very popular, and it lets people write documents on their computer with Microsoft Word, make charts and graphs with Microsoft Excel, make presentations with Microsoft PowerPoint, and other things.
Microsoft makes other programs on the Internet.
The Islamic World consists of all people who are in Islam.
It is not an exact location, but rather a community.
When they do things together as Muslims, they are the `` umma '', which means `` community '' referring to all of the believers.
It is also likely that some have been made shorter and less damaging because of it.
Some might even have never started.
A multiverse -LRB- or meta-universe -RRB- is the theory of a set of multiple possible universes, including our universe, which make up reality.
It is believed by physicists that our universe is perfect for life, because it had thousands of other chances at life, each of which is a different universe in the multiverse.
The Simple English Wikipedia has been running on MediaWiki since 18 December, having previously been on UseMod.
MediaWiki was previously called `` Phase 3 '', and is often referred to as `` the new software ''.
MediaWiki is the name of the software that runs most of the Wikipedias and its sister Wikimedia projects.
MediaWiki was previously called `` Phase III ''.
The software is licensed under the GPL.
This means is is free content, or open source.
Phase II was when Wikipedia first moved from the Usemod software to something written in PHP.
The software uses an underlying MySQL relational database.
Other programmers are strongly urged to get involved.
HEADING Related topics
Information and discussion about this software can be found on the following pages :
mailing list -LRB- technical discussions regarding the development -RRB-
Sourceforge : MediaWiki Project page
Sourceforge : MediaWiki Bug reports
Sourceforge : MediaWiki Feature requests
-LRB- former feature -RRB-
-LRB- installation advice -RRB-
Sometimes first language, second language and third language show how well one speaks a language, so a person can have more than one first language or second language.
These were made in France after the French Revolution.
They are now used everywhere in the world, but they are not as popular in some countries, like the USA.
Even the United Kingdom, which created the old US units of measurement, is now `` metric ''.
The UK is becoming more metric because the European Union wants it to use more metric units.
Go to the list of mathematics topics to see how we use math in different ways.
A flying bird or a walking person are moving, because they change where they are from one place to another.
There are many kinds of science and math related to movement.
Minor Edit on Simple Wikipedia means that the changes you make to an article is small.
Metaphor is language we use to compare things, but without using `` like '' or `` as '' - metaphor is not a simile.
Another sort of metaphor is a `` conceptual metaphor ''.
A metaphor very often uses the verb `` to be '' : `` love is war '', for example, not that a writer sees `` love as war -LRB- this is a simile -RRB-.
Idioms use metaphors, or are metaphors : for example, a shit sandwich is not something you eat, but it is something unpleasant you have to do.
The idea that doing a task is like eating a sandwich is a metaphor.
Because we do not often use it, it is probably not a conceptual metaphor, unless you are in a really bad life situation.
Spam is an example that any email user knows about - this word was originally a metaphor, from `` spam '', a tinned meat people do not usually like.
Servers putting unwanted email in your inbox was similar to waiters putting unwanted spam in your food.
This was originally suggested by a Monty Python skit -LRB- funny scene -RRB-.
When we use a metaphor very often and people forget the old meaning, or forget the two meanings are connected, this is a `` dead metaphor ''.
Originally metaphor was a Greek word for `` transfer ''.
It came from meta -LRB- `` change '' -RRB- and pherein -LRB- `` carry '' -RRB-.
So the word metaphor in English was a metaphor, too.
Today in Greek, metaphor is a trolley -LRB- a thing you push, to carry shopping or bags -RRB-.
Your metabolism can be increased and decreased by various physical factors like how frequently you eat.
Your metabolism uses energy to fuel all organs involved in digestion and respiration etc..
Your metabolism can work more or less.
This depends for example on how often you eat.
If you are hungry your metabolism slows down dramatically.
Your metabolism uses energy to fuel all organs involved in digestion and respiration and so on.
The amount of energy used to carry out these life processes is called your BMR-rate or your `` basal metabolic rate ''.
Metabolism is the system of chemical activities by which a living thing gets power -LRB- energy -RRB- from other things such as food.
Mars is the English name for the fourth planet from the Sun.
It is red because of iron oxide in the rock and dust.
It is named after the Roman god of war because it is red and red is the color of blood
The USA wants to send astronauts to visit Mars.
As of June of 2004, scientists still have not discovered proof of any life on Mars, either living now or extinct.
As of August 2007, scientists still have not discovered proof of any life on Mars, either living now or extinct.
en : WP
HEADING Physical characteristics
-- -RRB-
HEADING Physical features
Mars does not have very big magnetic field like Earth, but scientists found that parts of the planet 's crust have been magnetized and the polarity changed back and forth several times of its dipole field.
This feature, called paleomagnetism, means minerals that can be magnets, has properties that are very similar to the changing stripes on the ocean floors of Earth.
One idea, published in 1999 and reviewed in October 2005 -LRB- with the help of the Mars Global Surveyor -RRB-, says that these stripes show plate tectonics on Mars 4 billion years ago, before the planetary dynamo stopped working and caused Mars to almost lose its magnetic field.
Current models of the planet 's inside assume a core region about 1,480 kilometres -LRB- 920 mi -RRB- in radius, made of mostly iron with about 15 -- 17% sulfur.
This iron sulfide core is partially liquid.
It also has about two times more of the lighter elements than Earth has in its core.
Earth 's crust, on average 40 km -LRB- 25 mi -RRB-, is three times smaller as Mars ' crust based to the sizes of the two planets if they are made equal.
The geological history of Mars can be split into many periods called epochs.
The following are the three main ones :
Noachian epoch -LRB- named after Noachis Terra -RRB- : when the oldest surfaces of Mars appeared -LRB- and that still exist -RRB-, 3.8 billion years ago to 3.5 billion years ago.
Noachian age surfaces have very many large impact craters.
The Tharsis bulge volcanic upland is thought to have formed during this period, with a lot of flooding by liquid water close to the end of the epoch.
The Hesperian epoch is when a lot of lava came out and made a lot of plains out of it.
Amazonian epoch -LRB- named after Amazonis Planitia -RRB- : 1.8 billion years ago to today.
Amazonian regions have a lot less meteorite impact craters and are very different.
Olympus Mons appeared during this period along with lava flows elsewhere on Mars.
The Apple Macintosh or `` Mac '' is a type of computer that has been around since January 1984.
The people who designed the Macintosh and its operating system wanted computers to be easier to use.
Some of these people were inspired by a new computer they saw at a Xerox laboratory.
The Macintosh was the first popular computer to use a graphical user interface, or `` GUI. ''
The Macintosh can not run Windows programs by themselves.
Macintoshes need special software to use Windows.
Boot Camp is an example of this software and it is for Macs with Intel processors.
The latest version of Mac OS is called OS X, and it is based on Unix.
OS X will only run on a G3 or newer processor, unless special software is used.
The icons for many files look like pencils or machines of some kind.
Macintosh or `` Mac '' is a computer.
It has been made by Apple since January 1984.
The people who made the Macintosh and Mac OS wanted computers to be simpler.
Some of these people liked a Xerox computer.
The Macintosh was the first popular computer where people could click things on a screen.
The newest version of Mac OS is called OS X. It is based on Unix.
New Macintosh computers have Linux, Unix, Windows, or BeOS on them.
An Apple Macintosh or just Mac is a type of computer.
It was first made by Apple in January 1984, and the brand continues to this day.
The people who made the Macintosh and Mac OS -LRB- operating system -RRB- wanted computers to be simpler.
Mac also stands for mega asshole computer and to purchase a MAC you must present your ass hole card.
Users include Stuart Rawet who is obviously an ass hole
Moral reasoning is a topic studied in psychology and in moral philosophy.
It studies how people think about moral issues, problems, and questions.
Psychologists who have studied it include Lawrence Kohlberg and Elliot Turiel.
Kohlberg said that moral understanding develops in three main stages as a person gets older, but Turiel said that there are three domains of moral understanding that develop at the same time as a person gets older.
Moral philosophy, or ethics, is a major branch of philosophy.
It is the study of value or quality.
It covers the analysis and use of concepts such as right, wrong, good, evil, and responsibility.
The domes were often placed placed directly above the main prayer hall.
They signify the vaults of heaven and the sky.
At first, these domes were small.
They only occupied a small part of the roof near the mihrab.
Later, they took the whole roof above the prayer hall.
Domes normally have the shape of a hemisphere.
The Mughals in India popularized onion-shaped domes in South Asia and Persia.
Some mosques have several domes, in addition to the main large dome that is at the center.
The other domes are often smaller.
Most mosques have minarets.
Minarets are tall towers.
Usually they are at one of the corners of the mosque.
The top of the minaret is often the highest point in those mosques that have one.
Very often, it is also the highest point in the area around the mosque.
The first mosques had no minarets.
The most conservative Islamic movements, like Wahhabis, still avoid building minarets.
They see them as ostentatious and unnecessary.
After the Arab invasion of Persia, the architecture was combined with elements of Sassanian culture and used for the new Islamic world.
When Spain was under Muslim control, some of the most beautiful buildings were mosques.
After 1492, Spain was under Christian control.
However, the Christians did not tear down the mosques.
They simply put a crucifix in them to make them into churches.
These mosques influenced the Renaissance architecture -LRB- way of building -RRB- in Europe.
Under most interpretations of Islamic law, non-Muslims may be allowed into mosques, as long as they do not sleep or eat there.
Followers of the Maliki school of Islamic jurisprudence disagree.
They say that non-Muslims may not be allowed into mosques under any circumstances.
In a mosque, people should keep focused on worshipping Allah.
For this reason, there are a number of rules about the correct behavior in a mosque.
Some of these rules are valid all over the world, like the one that says that no shoes should be worn in the prayer hall.
Other rules are different from mosque to mosque.
HEADING Architecture = =
Many mosques are famous works of architecture.
They are often built in a certain way that has stayed the same for many centuries.
They may also have a courtyard.
The third of the Five Pillars of Islam says that Muslims must to give about one-fortieth of their to charity as zakat.
Mosques form the center of Muslim communities, so they are where Muslims go to both give zakat and, if necessary, collect it.
Before the holiday of Eid ul-Fitr, mosques also collect a special zakat.
It is supposed to assist in helping poor Muslims attend the prayers and celebrations associated with the holiday.
The first minaret was constructed in 665 in Basra during the reign of the Umayyad caliph Muawiyah I. Muawiyah encouraged the construction of minarets, as they were supposed to be the same as bell towers on Christian churches.
These features already existed in Persian architecture before Islam came to Persia.
After the Arab invasion of Persia, the architecture was combined with parts of the Sassanian culture and used for the new Islamic world.
Important mosque types include the early Abbasid mosques, T-type mosques, and the central-dome mosques of Anatolia.
In the 20th century, many countries that grew rich from oil drove the building of many mosques.
Mosques have rules to control what people do inside.
Many forms of mosques have developed in different regions of the Islamic world.
The rulers of these countries often hired leading architects, including non-Muslims, to design these mosques.
The first mosques of this type were built during the Umayyad Dynasty.
In the warm Mediterranean and Middle Eastern climates, the courtyard served to hold the large number of worshippers during Friday prayers.
These can be off-center over the prayer hall or throughout the rest of the mosque, where prayer is not performed.
The top of the minaret is often the highest point in the mosque.
The tallest minaret in the world is in the Hassan II Mosque in Casablanca, Morocco.
The first minaret was built in 665 in Basra during the reign of the Umayyad caliph Muawiyah I. Muawiyah encouraged the building of minarets, as they were supposed to be the same as bell towers on Christian churches.
They represent the vaults of heaven and the sky.
They only took up a small part of the roof near the mihrab.
Some mosques have several domes, as well as the main large dome that is at the center.
Domes in traditional mosques would be used to help the imam be heard, as the sound waves would bounce in and then out of the dome making the voice louder.
They see them as simply a fancy decoration and unnecessary.
Because of this, mosque architects borrowed the shape of the bell tower for their minarets, which were used for the same purpose -- calling the faithful to prayer.
In many countries like Singapore where Muslims are not the majority, mosques are stopped from loudly playing the call to prayer -LRB- adhan -RRB-, although it is supposed to be said loudly to the surrounding community.
Nearly every mosque chooses a muezzin for each prayer to say the adhan, as it is a recommended practice or sunnah of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.
At mosques that do not have minarets, the adhan is called from inside the mosque or somewhere else on the ground.
In a properly sited mosque, it will be set to a line leading to Mecca, the site of the Kaaba.
Mosques often have fountains or other facilities for washing in their entrances or courtyards, so that people can perform the washing ritual before prayer.
In bigger, traditional mosques, there is often a building specially for washing.
This is often in the center of the courtyard.
There are special rooms where shoes can be left.
Entrances with shelves for shoes and racks for coats are common in mosques.
The only Muslims that do not have to pray are those who are ill..
Most mosques have formal prayers for each of these times.
Mosques also hold a special prayer service, called jumuah.
The mosque is the center of the Islamic community, showing the idea of brotherhood and iman.
When a Muslim dies, a funeral prayer, or salat ul-janazah, is normally held outdoors in a courtyard or square close to the mosque, with all the worshippers present, including the imam, taking part.
These Eid prayers are supposed to be offered in large groups, and so larger mosques will normally hold them for their own communities as well as the people from smaller local mosques.
Some mosques will even rent convention centers or other large public buildings to hold the large numbers who attend.
It is supposed to assist in helping poor Muslims attend the prayers and celebrations linked with the holiday.
Countries with small Muslim populations are more likely than Muslim-majority countries of the Greater Middle East to use mosques as a way to support civic participation.
Mosques want to interest these people for politics, and to keep them informed about issues that concern the Muslim community.
After the al-Askari Mosque bombing in February 2006, imams and other Islamic leaders used mosques and Friday prayers to call for calm and peace during the widespread violence.
Beginning in the late twentieth century and continuing into the early twenty-first century, a small number of mosques have also become a base for extremist imams to support terrorism and extreme Islamic ideals.
Finsbury Park Mosque in London is a mosque that has been used in this manner.
Like other places of worship, mosques can be at the center of social conflicts.
Babri Mosque was the center of such a conflict up until the early 1990s when it was pulled down.
Before a solution could be found, the mosque was destroyed by about 200,000 Hindus on December 6, 1992.
The mosque was built by Babur to mark the birth place of Ram.
It was believed to be on a site of an earlier Hindu temple.
The conflict over the mosque was directly linked to rioting in Bombay -LRB- present-day Mumbai -RRB- as well as bombings in 1993 that killed 257 people.
This increased the existing tensions.
In April 2006, there were two explosions at India 's Jama Masjid.
There were similar attacks in the United Kingdom after the 7 July 2005 London bombings.
Saudi involvement in building mosques around the world only goes back to the 1960s.
In the 1980s, the Saudi Arabian government began to pay for the building of mosques in countries around the world.
An estimated US$ 45 billion has been spent by the Saudi Arabian government for mosques and Islamic schools in foreign countries.
Ain al-Yaqeen, a Saudi newspaper, reported in 2002 that Saudi money may have helped to build as many as 1,500 mosques and 2,000 other Islamic centers Saudi citizens have also given a lot of money to mosques in the Islamic world, especially in countries where they see Muslims as poor and oppressed.
Following the fall of the Soviet Union, in 1992, mosques in Afghanistan recieved money from Saudi citizens.
The King Fahd Mosque in Culver City, California and the Islamic Cultural Center of Italy in Rome represent two of Saudi Arabia 's largest investments in foreign mosques as former Saudi king Fahd bin Abdul Aziz al-Saud gave US$ 8 million and US$ 50 million to the two mosques, respectively.
Some of these rules are the same all over the world, such as no shoes should be worn in the prayer hall.
Islam requires that its believers wear clothes that show modesty.
All people, of any religious belief are expected to respect the rules and decorum for mosques.
All mosques have rules about cleanliness.
Muslims must wash themselves before praying.
Some mosques also do not allow wearing shoes in other parts, even though these may not be devoted to praying.
Men are supposed to come to the mosque wearing loose and clean clothes that do not show the shape of the body.
Loud talking or discussion of topics that could be disrespectful, is forbidden in areas where people are praying.
It is also rude to walk in front of Muslims in prayer or otherwise disturb them.
Muslims are also discouraged from wearing clothing with images and symbols which could distract the attention of those standing behind them during prayer.
Muhammad said, women should pray at home, not at the mosque.
The second caliph Umar at one time stopped women from attending mosques, especially at night, because he feared they may be teased by males, so he made them to pray at home.
Although there are sections only for women and children, the Grand Mosque in Mecca is desegregated.
Most scholars of Islamic law, believe that non-Muslims may be allowed into mosques, as long as they do not sleep or eat there.
They say that non-Muslims may not be allowed into mosques at all.
Nearly all the mosques in the Arabian peninsula as well as Morocco do not allow non-Muslims.
The Hassan II Mosque in Casablanca is one of only two mosques in Morocco currently open to non-Muslims.
For mosques in other areas, it has most commonly been taken that non-Muslims may only enter mosques if granted permission to do so by Muslims and if they have a proper reason.
All people, of any religious belief, are expected to respect the rules and decorum for mosques.
Visiting a mosque is allowed only between prayers ; visitors must wear long trousers and not to wear shoes, women must cover their heads ; visitors are not allowed to disturb praying Muslims, especially by taking photos of them ; no loud talk is allowed ; and no references to other religions are allowed -LRB- no crosses on necklaces, no cross gestures etc. -RRB-
At different times and places, non-Muslims living under Muslim rule were made to show respect to mosques.
In most cities of Morocco, Jews had to take off their shoes when passing by a mosque Danish traveler Carsten Niebuhr wrote that in 18th century Egypt Jews and Christians were not allowed to ride, and so had to walk past several mosques in respect of their religous importance.
HEADING Mosques as hostels
A madrassa focuses on teaching Islam, usually to children and young people.
The Ottomans began building central dome mosques in the fifteenth century.
They are often built in a style that has stayed the same for many centuries.
A major influence was the palaces built during the Parthian and Sassanian dynasties of Persia.
The Sarvestan palace from the Sassanian era is a good example of this, with an arched entrance and a central dome.
These features already existed in Persia before Islam.
The Muslims used old architectural styles, and combined them in new ways.
After the Arab invasion of Persia, the new architecture, with its Sassanian influence, was used for the new Islamic world.
In the 20th century, many countries that grew rich from oil paid for the building of many new mosques.
Iwan mosques are famous for their domed rooms and iwans.
One or more iwans face a central courtyard that serves as the prayer hall.
This is done once a week.
It is a form of Sabbath and replaces the Friday prayers at the mosque.
Daily prayers can be done anywhere.
However, Muslims are expected to do their Friday prayer at the mosque.
The mosque is the center of the Islamic community.
It shows the idea of brotherhood and iman.
When a Muslim dies, a funeral prayer, or salat ul-janazah, is normally held.
It is held outdoors in a courtyard or square close to the mosque.
The prayers have all the worshippers present, including the imam, taking part.
There are two large holidays -LRB- Eids -RRB- in the Islamic calendar.
They are Eid ul-Fitr and Eid ul-Adha.
During these days, there are special prayers at mosques in the morning.
These Eid prayers are supposed to be offered in large groups.
Larger mosques will normally hold them for their own communities as well as the people from smaller local mosques.
These are done in the morning before dawn.
It is before the first prayer of the day, called fajr.
Like with iftar, people from the community often provide food.
However, mosques may provide food instead.
Islam sees giving charity during Ramadan as very good.
Larger mosques sometimes offer special, optional prayers.
They are done after the last required prayer of the day, isha.
During each night of prayers, one member of the community who has memorized the entire Qur ' an will recite a part of the book.
It can last for up to two hours.
During the last ten days of Ramadan, larger mosques will host all-night programs to observe Laylat al-Qadr.
It is the night Muslims believe that the Islamic prophet Muhammad first received Qur ` anic revelations.
Muslims performing i ` tikaf have to stay inside the mosque for ten days.
Often, it is in worship or learning about Islam.
Mosques form the center of Muslim communities.
They are where Muslims go to both give zakat and, if necessary, collect it.
Mosques are used to preach political messages, like peaceful co-existence with non-believers.
This is even when there are problems.
Countries with small Muslim populations use mosques as a way to support civic participation.
They are more likely to do this than Muslim-majority countries of the Greater Middle East.
Mosques want to interest these people for politics.
They also want to keep them informed about issues that concern the Muslim community.
Before a solution could be found, the mosque was destroyed by about 200,000 Hindus.
It took place on December 6, 1992.
Outside the Western world, in June 2001, the Hassan Bek Mosque was the target of attacks.
The attacks involved hundreds of Israelis angry at Arabs for a previous attack.
There are many mosques that are famous because of their age, size or their importance to Islam.
But not all natural numbers are positive -LRB- for example frac -LCB- 1 -RCB- -LCB- 2 -RCB- is positive, but not natural -RRB-.
When dealing with larger numbers than this there are two different ways of naming the numbers in English.
Under the ` long scale ' a new name is given every time the number is a million times larger than the last named number.
It is also called the ` British Standard '.
This scale used to be common in Britain but is not often used in English speaking countries today.
It is still used in some other European nations.
Another scale is the ` short scale ' under which a new name is given every time a number is a thousand times larger than the last named number.
This scale is a lot more common in most English speaking nations today.
1 000 000 000 - One Billion -LRB- Short Scale -RRB-, One Milliard -LRB- Long Scale -RRB-.
1 000 000 000 000 - One Trillion -LRB- Short Scale -RRB-, One Billion -LRB- Long Scale -RRB-
1 000 000 000 000 000 - One Quadrillion -LRB- Short Scale -RRB-, One Billiard -LRB- Long Scale -RRB-
English has special names for some of the numbers in the decimal number system that are ` powers of ten '.
When dealing with larger numbers than this, there are two different ways of naming the numbers in English.
Integers are whole numbers.
This is all the natural numbers, all their opposites, and the number zero.
Decimal numbers and fractions are not integers.
Its name is from the Latin word novem, which meant `` nine '' -LRB- it was the ninth month of the year, before January and February were added -RRB-.
For example, cat is a name of a kind of animal.
Usually the combination is said to be more useful or powerful than just a summary of all the things before or without combining.
Networks of people :
creative network of typically about 12 people who are creating something
social network of at most 150 people who are helping each other - typically in some site like a village, making a community
Networks made of `` parts of people ''
contact network of up to about 1000 people, including weak friends that do not always feel comfortable talking or asking for help, connected by business
power network made by alliances between social and contact networks, such as a political party, which can actually make things happen by fear and force, using their numbers and their ability to act as one larger thing.
corporations that combine contact and power networks to do just one thing in business
Networks not made of people :
telephone networks to combine telephones so they all can reach each other
computer networks like the Internet and the World Wide Web, or a more local `` net '' used only by networks of people or parts of people
power grids which connect electricity generators with users
A network is a group of things that are connected together using some form of talking or other to stay together.
A network is a group of things that are connected together using some form of talking or other communication to stay together.
People who use the Internet and World Wide Web have made up so many words it can seem like they use their own language.
Words like this are called slang.
Some are words are new, like blog and wiki.
Some common words like mail -LRB- to mean email -RRB- or news -LRB- to mean netnews -RRB- compare older ways of communicating to ways with a computer.
There are many mixed metaphors in computer slang.
People who use the Internet and World Wide Web have created so many new words it is like they use their own, new language.
We call this way of speaking slang or jargon.
Some words are new, for example blog and wiki.
People also took old words and gave them new meanings, for example mail -LRB- to mean email -RRB- or news -LRB- to mean netnews -RRB-, comparing older ways of communicating to ways with a computer.
But they are now part of this internet slang.
Words like site, chat or mail also have different meanings on the internet and World Wide Web.
Many net users say that the word community is good to describe a social network on the net, but others say it is another word with two meanings.
People have also created some verbs and adjectives to describe things that only happen on the net :
To flame - -LRB- verb -RRB- To send angry, offensive, or rude messages, usually repeatedly, in chat rooms, on forums, over instant messaging services -LRB- like AOL Instant Messenger -RRB-, or in e-mail
Flaming - -LRB- adjective -RRB- Angry, offensive, or rude text online
Net jargon uses many acronyms.
Many are shorthand for often-used phrases or idioms, or for emotional states or levels of certainty.
Most of these are not really acronyms as we can not say them in the way they are written.
people created some of them because they are shorter to type.
You can also write them in lower case -LRB- small, not CAPITAL -RRB- letters.
BBIAB -- `` be back in a bit '' -LRB- = I 'll return soon -RRB-
BFD -- `` big fucking deal '' -LRB- = It 's not important -RRB-
BRB -- `` be right back '' -LRB- = I 'll return soon -RRB- -LRB- usually used in chats and on an instant messenger service -RRB-.
BRT -- `` be right there '' -LRB- = I 'll return soon -RRB-
CYA -- `` Cover your ass '' -LRB- = make sure no-one can think you did something wrong -RRB- - A phrase used in the corporate world telling people to not become a victim of the blame-game -LRB- saying other people made mistakes, not you -RRB-
FAQ -- frequently asked questions -LRB- = questions which people often ask -RRB-, or a list of frequently asked questions with answers.
-LRB- = I am angry ; rude -RRB-
FOAD -- `` fuck off and die '' -LRB- = go and die ; rude -RRB-
-LRB- = I must leave now -RRB- Used in chatrooms.
GAGF -- `` go and get fucked '' -LRB- rude -RRB-
This acronym has two meanings and it is not a good idea to use it.
-LRB- = you did that well -RRB- Used sincerely in online games such as trivia, but more often used sarcastically when someone has done something foolish.
IANARS -- `` I am not a rocket scientist '' -LRB- = I am not super-clever -RRB-
IMHO -- `` in my humble opinion '' \/ `` in my honest opinion '' -LRB- humble = I do n't think I am wonderful -RRB-
JJ or JK -- `` just joking '', `` just kidding '' -LRB- = I am not serious -RRB-
LMAO -- `` laughing my ass off '' -LRB- = I am laughing a lot -RRB-
MYOB -- `` mind your own business '' -LRB- = do n't ask about private things -RRB-
NOYB -- `` none of your business '' -LRB- = do n't ask about private things -RRB-
PFO -- `` please fuck off '' -LRB- = go away ; rude -RRB-
PITA -- `` pain in the ass '' -LRB- = annoying person or thing -RRB-
Pwn -- a higher level of the word `` own ''.
This is what people often say to newbies -LRB- new people -RRB- who ask a very simple question, when the answer is easy to find.
STFU -- `` shut the fuck up '' -LRB- = stop speaking ; rude -RRB-
sup -- `` what 's up '' -LRB- = how are things ? -RRB-
used as a greeting or a question
-LRB- = what do you want to talk about ? -RRB-
-LRB- = what 's happening \/ what 's that ?
; rude -RRB-
YMMV -- `` Your mileage may vary '' -LRB- = you may see different results -RRB-
This word is neutral -LRB- but see RTFM, above -RRB-.
cluebie -- a newbie with a clue -LRB- with some idea about the subject -RRB-, but not a guru, see below.
Troll -- to try to provoke a response -LRB- as in fishing -RRB- - we often use it for a person who deliberately makes trouble.
lurker -- a person who reads an email list or a message board but does not join in the discussion.
flamer -- a person who ` flames ' ; To talk a lot about a relatively uninteresting subject ; to talk with a clearly stupid attitude or with hostility towards a person or group of people.
Perhaps this goes with the word lamer.
Snail mail is a metaphor for a real letter which we send by post.
Snail mail is much slower than sending a message electronically, by email, and so we say it travels as slowly as a snail, even if it is not really true.
Many people create new net jargon and abbreviations as they write, so these abbreviations can often be confusing.
These may one day creep into common usage and be in the dictionary.
Internet writing is difficult to understand, especially in chatrooms or on instant messaging, because much of it is quickly input, and many think, falsely, that the people reading know their body language.
For instance, people can understand a LOL as real laughter or as sarcasm, or as `` whatever, stay away from me ''.
So if you want to communicate accurately and you want people to understand you easily, it is best to be as explicit as possible : say exactly what you mean.
We can also use smileys, for example : -RRB- to show how we feel.
A dictionary of Net slang and Net lore is Eric S. Raymond 's The Jargon File, found at http://www.tuxedo.org/~esr/jargon/.
Nouns are grouped into common nouns, and proper nouns.
There are also pronouns, usually considered a different part of speech from nouns.
Nouns are words for things, and since things can be possessed, nouns can also change to show possession in grammar.
There are also pronouns, traditionally considered a different part of speech from nouns, but many modern linguists say it is a third type of nounHuddleston, R. & Pullum, G. K. (2002).
A natural resource is a thing people can use which comes from Nature : people do not make it themselves.
Petroleum used in cars is not a natural resource, for example, because people make it.
We often say there are two sorts of natural resource : renewable resources and non-renewable resources.
A renewable resource is a resource that grows again, or comes back again after we use it.
A non renewable resource is a resource does not grow or come back, or a resource that would take a very long time to come back or grow.
When we use coal, there is less coal afterwards.
One day, there will be no more coal.
Humans use a lot of natural resources to make goods.
They can use a resource directly -LRB- for example, eating the fish or burning the wood to cook the fish -RRB-, or they can change it by industry into a different thing -LRB- for example, they can use wind energy to make electricity to cook the fish -RRB-.
Not all people in every country or place can get all natural resources.
When people do not have one resource where they live, they can a -RRB- use another resource, or b -RRB- trade with another country -LRB- for example, they can buy oil from their neighbors -RRB-.
Some resources are rare - difficult to find - so people sometimes fight to have them -LRB- for example, oil resources -RRB-.
When people do not have some natural resources their quality of life can drop.
For example, when they can not get clean water, people may become ill ; if there is not enough wood, all trees will be cut and the forest will disappear -LRB- deforestation -RRB- ; if there are not enough fish in a sea, people can die of starvation.
A Natural resource is anything people can use which comes from nature.
People do not make natural resources, but gather them from the earth.
Examples of natural resources are air, water, wood, crude oil, solar energy, wind energy, hydro-electric energy, coal, and minerals.
Refined oil is not a natural resource, for example, because people make it.
For example, sunlight, water, and trees.
A non-renewable resource is a resource that does not grow or come back, or a resource that would take a very long time to come back.
When we use coal, there is less coal afterward.
One day, there will be no more of it to make goods.
The non-renewable resource can be used directly -LRB- for example, burning oil to cook -RRB-, or we can find a renewable resource to use -LRB- for example, using wind energy to make electricity to cook -RRB-.
It is important to conserve -LRB- save -RRB- non-renewable resources, because if we use them too quickly there will not be enough.
All places have their own natural resources.
When people do not have a certain resource they need, they can either replace it with another resource, or trade with another country to get the resource.
Some resources are difficult to find, so people sometimes fight to have them -LRB- for example, oil resources -RRB-.
When people do not have some natural resources, their quality of life can drop.
Neptune can be seen from Earth using binoculars and telescopes.
Neptune 's second known moon -LRB- by order of distance -RRB-, the odd moon Nereid, has one of the most unusual orbits of any satellite in the solar system.
It is a gas giant.
Neptune has four rings which are had to see from the Earth.
Neptune was discovered by astronomers, Urbain Le Verrier and John Couch Adams.
They were both honored for the discovery.
Of these, the lumpy-shaped Proteus is the biggest known object that has not been shaped into a sphere by its own gravity.
Although it is the second most massive Neptunian moon, it has only one quarter of one percent of the mass of Triton.
After the news of the discovery of Neptune spread, there was also a lot of arguing between the French and the British about who was to be deserved credit for the discovery.
In ecology, an ecozone is a large land mass that contains many terrestrial ecoregions, each of which has unique plants and animals.
Some people also use negative the same way as `` no '', or other related words.
Negative is a word that has at least three different meanings.
Things that are white will be black, things that are red will be green, and things that are orange will be blue.
-LRB- `` Canada, our home and the country where we were born, you make all your people truly love you !
Our citizens come from all over the earth and we watch over you to keep you safe.
If you create something -LRB- like pictures or writing -RRB-, you can choose to make it `` open ''.
That 's when it 's called Open content.
The word `` open '' means it must have copyright rules that allow other people to copy it, and also to change it if they want.
These rules are called a license.
The GFDL is a license that allows all this.
You can sell things that are open content.
It free as in freedom, not free as in `` it does n't cost money ''.
The Simple English Wikipedia is open content.
So are other Wikipedias.
The content can be text or pictures or sound.
If you change content or make new content, everyone can give or sell it to everyone else.
They never need to ask you for your permission.
When you clicked the save button, you gave your permission right there.
If you create something -LRB- like a picture or book -RRB-, you can choose to make that work `` open '', which means that other people are allowed to copy it and change it if they want.
OK is a word in the English langauge.
It is used to mean that something is good or correct.
OK came from a person named Oswald Kolle.
His job was to check the quality of work.
If the work was correct he used to put OK beside it on his list.
OK is a word in the English language.
An operating system is the software that lets a computer run applications.
The type of operating system best suited for a computer is often affected by the parts it is made of, or platform ; however there are some operating systems that can be made to run on many platforms, or in some cases, any platform.
Some even say Philosophy can easily be explained, as a thing in the `` grey-zone field '' inbetween
religion and science in the interpretion of world.
Karl Marx
Philosophy is the study of human beings and the world by thinking and asking questions.
It is not part of science as it does not use observations or studies of things -LRB- the scientific method -RRB- to find answers, but tries to answer big questions by coming up with realistic answers and asking `` why not ? ''
Philosophy is related to science and to religion and can compete with them to answer some questions.
Some say Philosophy lies inbetween science and religion whilst others say it should be studied on it 's own.
Some Important questions that philosophy asks include what is good and what is beautiful ?
does god exist ?
does the world around us exist ?
what is a human mind ?
and what is truth ?
Philosophy can be divided into fields or disciplines based on the questions that it asks.
Here is a more complete list of questions divided up into fields or disciplines.
What are right and wrong, good and bad ?
Should people do some things and not others ?
How can we know anything ?
In Logic :
What do the words we use mean ?
How can we say things -LRB- especially ideas -RRB- in a way that only has one meaning ?
Can all ideas be expressed using language ?
Philosophers believe that asking these questions is useful as it brings wisdom and helps people to learn about the world and each other.
Whether this is doing anyone any good is something that is disputed.
Some people think philosophy is just politics, but, also, some people think politics is just disagreements about philosophy which are not very efficient, and end up with people trying to force each other to do things, or not to do things, by law and violence.
HEADING Some philosophers
John Paul Sartre
HEADING The first Greek philosophers
Philosophy is the study of human beings and the world by thinking and asking questions, another Definition of Philosophy is that it is the study of abstract ideas -LRB- that is ideas on their own -RRB-.
It is not part of science as it does not observe or study the things and events in the world -LRB- the scientific method -RRB- to find out how it works.
Some people think that philosophy harms Church or State, as philosophy is a sort of free-thinking and often questions the beliefs that others hold.
Philosophers believe that asking philosophical questions is useful because it brings wisdom and helps people to learn about the world and each other.
Some also think politics is just a competition or argument between philosophies, which can end up with people trying to force each other to do things by law and violence.
HEADING How people do philosophy
Some philosophers are full-time thinkers -LRB- called academics -RRB-, others are just `` hobby '' thinkers, or approach philosophy from another job, for example a monk or a scientist.
Philosophy can be divided into different groups, based on the types of question that it asks.
= = Ask questions about complicated ideas and simplify the thought process.
But some thinkers find it very difficult to verbalise i.e. to formulate into words their ideas.
As ideas that some philosophers have, they lose, when trying to put down on paper their true meaning.
HEADING What philosophers do
Philosophers ask questions about complicated ideas and simplify the thought process.
What is the relationship between mind and sex ?
-LRB- oh, yeah biatch -RRB-
Philosophers ask questions about simple ideas and complicate the thought process.
The ideas in philosophy are abstract, which means that they are `` things that can not be touched. ''
But this does not mean that philosophy is not about the real world.
Ethics, for example, asks what we should in our everyday lives, and metaphysics asks about how the world works and what it is made of.
Physics is a science.
It can also be called The science of physical laws.
It is the study of motion, energy, matter, electricity, magnetism, space, and time.
It helps us understand how objects move, how they bend, how they make noise, how hot or cold they will be, whether they can make light, and what they are made of at the smallest level.
The mathematics used in physics can make exact calculations, but any calculation has to be checked against the way the real world works.
The laws of physics are always being improved to make a better model of the world.
Isaac Newton was not the first person to use mathematics to describe the physical world -LRB- Aristotle and Pythagoras were some who came earlier -RRB-, but he was among the people who invented Calculus, which is a system of mathematics that lets people predict how things will change over time.
They did this mostly to predict the future positions of planets, because Astronomy has always been a very popular and useful form of science itself, and knowing more about the motions of the objects in the night sky was important for navigation.
Gottfried Leibniz also helped to invent Calculus.
The two men sometimes disagreed over it, but modern mathematicians give both of them credit for the invention.
Cold fusion -- Dynamic theory of gravity -- Luminiferous aether -- Orgone energy -- Reciprocal System of Theory -- Steady state theory -- Vacuum energy
Classical physics normally includes the fields of mechanics, optics, electricity, magnetism, acoustics and thermodynamics.
Although this distinction can be found in older writings, it is of little recent interest as quantum effects are now understood to be of importance even in fields previously considered classical.
Politics is about finding agreement to difficult social problems.
Within each country, this is usually done by making new laws and changing old ones, and by choosing leaders to make big decisions.
There are also disagreements between different countries.
If these are very serious, they can lead to war.
Attempts to solve the problem are then called diplomacy.
This is just politics between nations as opposed to politics within nations.
Politics is often compared to ethics -LRB- ideas about right and wrong -RRB-.
Ethics is a more abstract study of disagreements about what is right and wrong.
Ethics is usually more concerned with principle than law or politics or diplomacy, so many people think ethics is not practical.
But without some agreement on ethics, there is probably no way to even have a public debate, a legal system or an election.
In most countries, people have formed political parties to put forward their ideas.
There is usually disagreement between people within parties, but the members of each party work together with other members.
They agree to take the same position on many issues, and agree to support the same changes to law and the same leaders.
An election is usually a competition between different parties.
This is just politics between nations instead of politics within nations.
He said that without power, a leader could do nothing.
`` You must not steal '' is an example of a law.
Politics is about making cheese between people so that they can live in a shoe in groups such as tribes, cities, or countries.
In large shoes, such as clown shoes, some people may spend a lot of their time making more cheese.
These people are called cheesemakers.
Cheesemakers, and sometimes other shoe dwellers, may get together to form a pizza.
The pizza tries to lead the whole group.
The pizza may do things such as :
Decide who gets what pieces of cheese
Decide which people can tell other people
Decide whether to go to the pizza store
Create cheese
Build things for the use of the shoe, such as laces, and socks, etc.
Educate llamas, either for their own good, or to teach them what the pizza wants them to know
Take care of the very old, the healthy, or the very young shoes
They came to be thought of as profanity mostly after the Normans brought French and Latin words for them to England.
An offensive word for black people.
`` Nigger '' is more commonly used in rap culture, where it is used towards others as a friendly term, and it is not racist in this usage.
These gestures are considered as strong as profane words in most cases.
Expresses, or thinking that someone is foolish.
Proof could mean :
Since 1st Oct,1949, it has made up almost all of China.
It has the most people of any country in the world -LRB- almost 1.3 billion people -LRB- July 2003 est. -RRB- -RRB-
The capital city is Beijing, and Shanghai is the biggest city.
These two cities remain mostly self-governed.
The main government can control their defense and foreign affiairs, but not most of their everyday laws.
The United Kingdom gave China control of Hong Kong in 1997, and Portugal gave China control of Macao in 1999.
Since the 1st October 1949, it has made up almost all of China.
Since the 1st of October 1949, it has made up almost all of China.
The People 's Republic of China -LRB- Chinese language : : -RRB- is a country in eastern Asia.
The main government can control their defense and foreign affairs, but not most of their everyday laws.
Plants grow upward, because the heat from the sunlight pulls the water and food from the ground through the roots, and toward tiny, invisible holes at the other end of the plant, usually on the leaves.
It is sort of like the Sun is sucking through a straw.
The heat from the sunlight pulls the water and food from the ground through the roots, and toward tiny holes at the other end of the plant.
This is because they are looking for sunlight which boosts the plant 's chlorophyll levels which, in turn, help it grow green.
Proteins, are a main part of living things, especially in muscles.
Proteins are large molecules built from small units known as amino acids.
Proteins also form an important part in foods like milk, eggs, meat, fish, beans and nuts.
Mainly animals and organisms that can not produce their own food from sunlight will need proteins.
They get them by eating other living beings which have stored proteins.
Proteins were discovered by Berzelius, in 1838.
Proteins are one of the main things body builders eat or consume to keep or gain high levels of muscles.
It is the protein in their muscles that makes it that much easier to gain muscle.
If a person wants to `` bulk up '' then he or she will have a high protein diet.
Instead of taking steroids, it is a great way to develop muscle content quickly.
Proteins are one of the main things body builders eat to keep or gain high levels of muscles.
It is the high protein in their diet that makes it easier to gain muscle, and safer than taking steroids.
Body builders will eat foods with a lot of protein as an easy way to keep or gain high levels of muscles that is safer than taking steroids.
The Periodic table of the chemical elements is a list of simple chemical substances -LRB- chemical elements -RRB-.
HEADING Types of Planets
Examples are the icy moons of the outer planets of our solar system -LRB- like Triton -RRB-.
The gravitational force of the Sun on the moon is more than double the gravitational force of the Earth on the moon.
If a planet goes around a different star than our sun, it is called an extrasolar planet.
The extrasolar planets that we have found until today have masses about the same or larger than the gas giants in our solar system.
If a planet does not go around any star, it is called an interstellar planet.
Police officers are people who work for a government and have been given special authority to enforce -LRB- that is, to make effective or working -RRB- their government 's laws against different crimes by many methods.
These methods range from investigating unusual events like burglaries or murders, to simply watching to see if anybody breaks the law, such as being posted in an airport lobby or patrolling a highway.
Even in countries like the UK, where most police officers do not carry guns, more are being trained to do so.
Firearms training emphasizes the firearm as an absolute last resort when no other option is available to defend the officer 's life or that of another.
But even if they do not carry guns, police almost always carry other things :
a wooden baton, about 60 x 3 cm, for blocking attacks and hitting people
a flashlight, for lighting dark places
pepper spray, for blinding people
The Police -LRB- or `` police force '' -RRB- are a government organization that has authority to enforce -LRB- that is, to make effective or working -RRB- their government 's laws against different crimes.
Most police departments have most of their officers in two main groups : a `` patrol '' group that has officers who wear uniforms, and a `` detective '' group that has officers who wear normalclothing.
Patrol officers travel through their area to see what is happening.
They drive marked cars with warning lights.
People see patrol officers and remember to obey the laws.
Patrol officers also enforce traffic laws and operate the local jail.
Detectives work on investigations that are more complex.
They try to find fraud, illegal drugs, and sex crimes like prostitution.
Peace is a time without any fights or wars.
In a larger sense, peace -LRB- or peacefulness -RRB- can mean a state of harmony, quiet or calm that is not disturbed by anything at all, like a still pond with no ripples.
Motto : Mr. Cheese Nacho, stay away !
This was called the Quiet Revolution because there were not many protests.
Quebec says something about society because it 's like Europe, but in North America.
Red is the color of human blood.
Red is the color of blood and fire.
Red can represent anger or love.
Red is also sometimes known as the color of anger and love.
Red is the color between orange and purple in the rainbow.
It is one of the three primary colors, along with blue and yellow.
Red light has a wavelength between 630-760 nm.
Red is the color of blood and tomatoes.
Red can represent passion, anger, or love.
In politics, `` red '' is related to Communism.
The `` Red Army '' can refer to the army of the old Soviet Union, or the People 's Republic of China.
RED GOES FASTER
BROOOOOM
YOU HAVE TO BE ABOUT THIS FAST TO BE RED
Red is the color of fire and blood, so it is associated with energy, war, danger, strength, power, determination, as well as passion, desire, and love.
Red is an emotionally intense color.
It is thought that it tends to raise blood pressure and make people breathe faster.
It is very easy to notice, which is why stop signs, stoplights, and fire equipment are usually painted red.
In heraldry, red is often used to indicate courage.
Red brings attention to text and images.
It is a perfect color for ` Buy Now ' or ` Click Here ' buttons on Internet banners and websites, because it may make some people want to act quickly.
In advertising, red is often used to cause erotic feelings -LRB- red lips, red nails, red-light districts, ` Lady in Red ', etc -RRB-.
This color is also associated with energy, so it may be used to promote energy drinks, games, cars, items related to sports and high physical activity.
RED IS A COLUR... STUPID.
A reward is getting something good for doing a given task.
It needs someone who has the power to give the good thing.
It is the opposite of punishment.
Ideas like risk and reward, reward and punishment are based on the idea that people do things, or avoid doing things, to get rewards.
In psychology there is another idea that this is not true.
This other idea says that training -LRB- conditioning -RRB- and emotions -LRB- affective factors -RRB- are much more important than the rewards or punishments given by others.
In trying to catch criminals and other bad people, the government often offers money to people.
This money is given to people who may capture the criminal, or give information that helps the police catch them.
For example after the Eureka Stockade rebellion in Ballarat, Victoria in 1854, the government offered a big reward of 400 pounds for the capture of the people who had started it.
The US government offered a big reward of 2.5 million dollars for help in capturing the person who had sent anthrax in letters to other people in the US.
Anthrax is a disease which can kill people.
We can define a wave -LRB- sound -RRB- as a disturbance which travels through some medium.
Sports can keep people fit and healthy.
-LRB- Scientists try something to see if it works or not. -RRB-
I like scientists.
One time a scientist touched me in a special place.
Hi Eric.
Like Edgar and Vanessa.
It can also help someone whose English is weak to improve his or her English.
The contents of Simple English programs are much easier to understand.
Simple English is clearer and simpler, and it uses shorter sentences.
In some countries, for example China, Special English is popular among people learning English.
It often has spices in it and is covered in a casing.
Other meats, like the hot dog, pepperoni, bologna, and salami also are covered with a casing like a sausage 's.
Sausages often have meat from the animal 's head, lips, cheeks, and other parts.
Some have blood in them.
Irish and English sausages normally have a lot of `` rusk, '' or bread crumbs, and they are less meaty than sausages from other countries.
Many countries and regions have special kinds of sausage.
Sausages are some of the oldest foods.
A social contract is an agreement to follow certain rules.
These rules are usually called laws.
Laws help to make sure social capital and social trust are taken care of.
One kind of social contract is a constitution.
A constitution sets limits on the powers of government leaders, police, and other people who have authority.
Social capital is the willingness of people to help each other.
It often replaces money which people would use to buy the same help.
Society works best when there is plenty of social capital.
The less social capital there is, the more social problems there usually are.
If there is no social capital, war and revolution often results.
People who have no money and can not get help from society may have to agree to do things they do not want to do, or force others to do things they do not want to.
Most ways of measuring social capital have to do with trust - people who trust that favors and help will be available when they need it will favor and help others more.
Those who are seen as trying to get a free ride will get much less help.
A social climber tries to earn social capital by making friends with those who have it but without actually helping.
Some call this kind of person a social parasite.
They are very hard to detect, unlike people who cheat or commit fraud.
When there are too many of these kinds of people, especially when they are politicians, people begin to mistrust their government.
Social capital is a lot like real capital.
The more money a person or a society has, the easier it is to do things and the better off people are.
The less money, the more difficult things become and the worse people feel.
It wants to describe everything that happens in nature.
I say it makes my head hurt.
String theory says that the electrons and quarks inside an atom are not 0-dimensional objects -LRB- objects without any length, depth, or width -RRB-, but 1-dimensional strings.
These strings can move and vibrate, and this is what gives particles their different characteristics : flavor, charge, mass and spin.
The main idea behind string theory is the holographic principle, which says that the way the edge -LRB- or horizon -RRB- of a black hole moves gives information about the spacetime around the black hole.
The Holographic Principle says that these movements of the edge of the black hole -LRB- which has less dimensions than the whole black hole -RRB- give all the information about the objects that fall into the black hole.
Since anything can fall into a black hole, the theory that explains a black hole can also explain everything in the universe.
The edge of the black hole, which has fewer dimensions than the entire black hole, can still describe it - in the same way, the 1-dimensional strings can describe the physical world, which has more dimensions.
It seems like it would be very hard to find one of these `` holographic descriptions '' in real life, because it would be a disembodied nonlocal description of quantum gravity.
In string theory, not only is there one such description, there are several different ones, each describing movements of horizons with different charges and dimensions, and all of them logically fit together.
An ordinary astronomical black hole ca n't easily be described this way, because it has a Hawking temperature.
Scientists calculate string theories using cold black holes, which are those which have as much charge as possible.
The strings of string theory are one-dimensional oscillating lines, but now the theory can work without out them, and use 1-dimensional points or 2-dimensional surfaces instead.
In particular, string theory is the first theory that could possibly be the theory of everything -LRB- TOE -RRB-, a way to describe the known fundamental forces -LRB- gravitational, electromagnetic, weak and strong interactions -RRB- and matter -LRB- quarks and leptons -RRB- in a mathematically complete system.
One of the best of these is the 11-dimensional M-theory, which needs spacetime to have eleven dimensions, M. J. Duff, James T. Liu and R. Minasian Eleven Dimensional Origin of String\/String Duality : A One Loop Test Center for Theoretical Physics, Department of Physics, Texas A&M University instead of the usual three spatial dimensions and the fourth dimension of time.
But the theory also describes universes like ours, with four spacetime dimensions, as well as universes with up to 10 flat space dimensions, and also cases where the position in some of the dimensions is not described by a real number, but by a completely different type of mathematical quantity.
String theories use objects other than strings, called branes.
The word brane comes from the word `` membrane ''.
There are different types of branes, such as D-branes, black p-branes and Neveu-Schwarz 5-branes.
These branes are extended objects that are charged sources for differential form generalizations of the vector potential electromagnetic field.
An ordinary black hole ca n't easily be described this way, because it has a Hawking temperature.
All string theories predict that there are more dimensions than the 4 dimensions we are used to.
Without a type of particle called fermions, bosonic strings can vibrate in a flat but unstable 26-dimensional space time.
Long, light strings can vibrate at different resonant frequencies, and every frequency describes a different elementary particle.
String theory is the name for a number of mathematical models that want to find a common explanation for the four main forces that have so far been observed in nature.
These forces are gravity, the electromagnetic force, the strong nuclear force and the weak nuclear force, respectively.
Classical physics says that the universe is made of small particles which are basically static and unchanging.
String theory says that the building blocks are objects that vibrate, rather than particles.
Another problem is that the mathematical laws of string theory also give lots of different possible solutions.
The Shabbat day -LRB- also known as the Sabbath Day -RRB- is the 7th day of the week in Judaism.
Usually, it is a day of rest.
This has its origins in Creation, when God made the Earth for six days, and stopped work on the seventh day.
the bread is gay.
it has salt on it, it must be salty.
Statistics is used to describe data and to test theories about the world and how it works.
Before the world can be described with statistics, data has to be collected.
This data has the form of measurements.
After the data is collected, there will be a series of numbers which describe that observation, or measurement.
A typical example might be to find out how popular a certain TV program is, how many people watch it.
Another example might be to find out, whether a certain drug helps in curing a specific disease.
Statistics can be divided into 3 parts :
Statistics is a part of mathematics.
In many sciences, measurements and tests are done.
Statistics is about the results of these measurements and tests, about grouping similar ones, and about testing theories based on these results.
Statistics is about the results of these measurements and tests.
In a statistic, similar results will be grouped.
The results will also be tested to create new theories based on them.
Descriptive Statistics : This is to describe the data that were collect by observations or experiments.
For example, it can be look at how tall everyone is.
Then it can a statistics be used to say things like how tall people are on average, or how many people are taller than six feet high.
It is also possible to say if the data follow any common patterns.
Inferential Statistics : This is for using patterns that were found in the data.
We can make better guesses for things that the data is about.
Speed is the distance that an object moves in a certain amount of time.
An objects speed -LRB- for instance, a vehicles speed -RRB- can be measured in
miles per hour -LRB- mph -RRB-,
kilometers per hour -LRB- km\/h -RRB-
meters per second -LRB- m\/s -RRB-, which is the SI-unit for speed.
Increasing speed is called acceleration.
Decreasing speed is called deceleration, or negative acceleration.
Speed and position in Quantum Mechanics
Metric system
A Server Log records what is happening on a server at any time.
For example, an HTTP server runs a web site.
Simple English Wikipedia is runs on a server.
In net jargon, a group of words people use about the Internet, a server is software that runs on a cig computer to serve many things from user or client machines.
Client-server is the usual name for this.
This is good for file sharing.
The simplest is the idea of a condition an object is in, for example, a state of matter : solid, liquid or gas.
Mexico, Germany, Australia, and the United States of America are examples of this.
They are usually called federal republics.
The words province or district mean about the same thing.
It means a collection of planets, comets and other objects moving around a
Slavery -LRB- also called thralldom -RRB- is an ecnonmic system.
Certain people, called slaves, have to work.
In addition, they do not have certain rights.
They can not move around freely, for example.
Often, slaves get very little compensation for their work.
Slaves are held against their will ; they can not leave, they have no choice but to work.
Slavery is a form of unfree labor.
In the narrowest sense of the word, slaves are owned by someone else.
This is called chattel slavery.
As chattel slaves are property -LRB- like furniture -RRB- they can also be bought and sold as such.
Officially, slavery as such has been abolished.
It continues to this day tohugh, often in different forms -LRB- slaves are free people, but they have a high debt which forces them to work for someone -RRB-.
As chattel slaves are property -LRB- like furniture -RRB- they are bought and sold as such.
Slavery today is in the form of the trafficking of human beings.
For gilrs and women, slavery takes the form of forced prostitution.
Children which have to work in mines or in plantations.
UN Chronicle Slavery in the Twenty-First CenturyBBC Millions ` forced into slavery ' According to a broad definition of slavery used by Kevin Bales of Free the Slaves -LRB- FTS -RRB-, an advocacy group linked with Anti-Slavery International, there are 27 million people -LRB- although some put the number as high as 200 million -RRB- in virtual slavery today, spread all over the world.
Kevin Bales, Disposable People According to FTS, these slaves represent the largest number of people that has ever been in slavery at any point in world history and the smallest percentage of the total human population that has ever been enslaved at once.
Although outlawed in most countries today slavery is, nonetheless, practiced secretly in many parts of the world -- with outright enslavement still taking place in parts of Africa, the Middle East, and South Asia.
In June and July 2007, 570 people who had been enslaved by brick manufacturers in Shanxi and Henan were freed by the Chinese government.
Of those rescued, 69 of them were children.
In response, the Chinese government assembled a force of 35,000 police to check northern Chinese brick kilns for slaves, sent dozens of kiln supervisors to prison, punished 95 officials in Shanxi province for dereliction of duty, and sentenced one kiln foreman to death for killing an enslaved worker.
In Mauritania alone, it is estimated that up to 600,000 men, women and children, or 20% of the population, are enslaved, many of them used as bonded labor.
Mauritania made slavery illegal last monthThe Abolition season on BBC World Service Slavery in Mauritania was criminalized in August 2007.
Mauritanian MPs pass slavery law In Niger, slavery is also a current phenomenon.
A Nigerien study has found that more than 800,000 people are enslaved, almost 8% of the population.
The Shackles of Slavery in NigerBorn to be a slave in NigerBBC World Service Slavery Today Child slavery has commonly been used in the production of cash crops and mining.
According to the U.S. Department of State, more than 109,000 children were working on cocoa farms alone in Côte d'Ivoire -LRB- Ivory Coast -RRB- in ` the worst forms of child labor ' in 2002.
U.S. Department of State Country Reports on Human Rights Practices, 2005 Human Rights Report on Côte d'Ivoire
In November 2006, the International Labour Organization announced it will be seeking `` to prosecute members of the ruling Myanmar junta for crimes against humanity '' over the continuous forced labor of its citizens by the military at the International Court of Justice.
ILO asks Myanmar to declare forced labor banned According to the International Labor Organization -LRB- ILO -RRB-, an estimated 800,000
people are subject to forced labor in Myanmar.
ILO cracks the whip at YangonCritics : Myanmar biofuel drive uses forced labor
Long Island Mahender Sabhnani, 52, an international perfume maker, was convicted by Federal District Court Judge Arthur Spatt of slavery of 2 Indonesian housekeepers in his $ 2 million Muttontown home, and sentenced on June 27, 2008 to 3 years and 4 months in prison with fine of $ 12,500.
His wife, Varsha, was sentenced to 11 years in prison.
A 12-count federal indictment included charges of forced labor, conspiracy, involuntary servitude and harboring aliens, specifically `` beating slaves with brooms and umbrellas, slashed with knives, and forced to climb stairs and to take freezing showers for misdeeds that included sleeping late or stealing food from the trash because they were poorly fed.
`` nytimes.com, Man in Slave Case Sentenced to 3 Yearsap.google.com, 2nd NY millionaire gets prison in slavery case
HEADING US and GB stop slavery
HEADING References
Slavery is still practiced in some parts of the world.
It continues to this day though, though the ways in which it is done have changed.
Today, all slaves are free people.
Because different things, like a high debt, for example, they have to work ofr one empoyer.
For girls and women, slavery most often means forced prostitution.
Children have to work in mines or in plantations, or they have to fight wars as child soldiers.
HEADING Slavery today
Chattel slaves are property, much like furniture, they are bought and sold in the same way.
Officially, slavery has been abolished.
Slavery -LRB- also called thralldom -RRB- is an econmic system.
Chattel slaves are property, much like cattle.
They are also bought and sold in the same way.
Today, most slaves are free people.
Because different things, like a high debt, for example, they have to work for one empoyer.
One study says that there are 27 million people -LRB- but others say there could be as many as 200 million -RRB- in slavery today, everywhere.
Kevin Bales, Disposable People These slaves are the the largest number of people that has ever been in slavery at any point in world history and the smallest percentage of the total human population that has ever been enslaved at once.
The prices for a slave vary from US$ 40, in Mali, for young adult male workers.
The smaller limit is probably the lowest price that there has ever been for a slave : the price of the same male slave in 1850 in the United States would have been US$ 1,000 -- that is about $ 25,800 today.
The change is probably due to the fact of today 's greater population, making human life cheaper.
As a result of the lower price, the money advantages of present-day slavery are clear.
Although outlawed in most countries today slavery is, still practiced lots in many parts of the world -- with obvious enslavement still taking place in parts of Africa, the Middle East, and South Asia.
In Summer 2007, 570 people were found to be slaves for brick makers in China.
Of those freed, 69 of them were children.
The Chinese government made a force of 35,000 police to check northern Chinese brick kilns for slaves, and sent lots of kiln supervisors and officials to prison and sentenced one kiln foreman to death for killing an enslaved worker.
In Mauritania, it is estimated that up to 600,000 men, women and children, or 20% of the population, are enslaved, many of them used as bonded labor.
Mauritania made slavery illegal last monthThe Abolition season on BBC World Service Slavery in Mauritania was made illegal in August 2007.
Mauritanian MPs pass slavery law In Niger, slavery is also rife.
A Nigerian study has found that more than 800,000 people are enslaved, almost 8% of the population.
The Shackles of Slavery in NigerBorn to be a slave in NigerBBC World Service Slavery Today Child slavery has commonly been used when making cash crops and mining.
This section may be too complex.
\*\*\*
ILO cracks the whip at YangonCritics : Myanmar biofuel drive uses forced labor -- -RRB-
Is this section needed ?
\*\*\*
-- -RRB-
In Novermber 2006, the International Labour Organisation said that it would prosecute members of the junta that rules Myanmar -LRB- also called Burma -RRB- at the International Court of Justice for `` Crimes against Humanity ''.
This is because the military obligest some citizens to forced labor.
ILO asks Myanmar to declare forced labor banned The Internatianal Labour organization says that it thinks that about 800.000 people are forced to work this way.
ILO cracks the whip at YangonCritics : Myanmar biofuel drive uses forced labor
Slavery -LRB- also called thralldom -RRB- is a system where people, called slaves, must work with little or no pay for their work.
Slaves do not have rights and have no choice but to work.
Slavery is a form of unfree labor and, in general, slaves are owned by someone else.
If a slave is owned by someone else, he is called a chattel slave -LRB- pronounced.
They are bought and sold in the same way.
HEADING Slavery today
People are still being made slaves in some parts of the world.
Today, slaves work because of things like a high debt -LRB- for example, slaves have to work to pay off a debt -RRB-.
For girls and women, forced prostitution is a type of slavery.
Another form of slavery still happening today is forced child labor.
Some children have to work in mines or in plantations, or they have to fight wars as child soldiers, for no pay.
Kevin Bales, Disposable People
HEADING Countries
There is obvious enslavement still taking place in parts of Africa, the Middle East, and South Asia.
The Chinese government made a force of 35,000 police check northern Chinese brick kilns for slaves, and sent lots of kiln supervisors and officials to prison and sentenced one kiln foreman to death for killing an enslaved worker.
HEADING Slave policy
The prices for a slave are different in different places.
They start at about US$ 40, in Mali, for young adult male workers.
A young woman or a girl who does not have HIV may sell for as much as US$ 1,000 in Thailand.
In 1850 in the United States, a slave could have been US$ 1,000 -- about $ 25,800 today.
The change in price is probably due to the fact of today 's greater population, making human life cheaper.
As a result of the lower price, the money advantages of present-day slavery are clear.
HEADING Stopping slavery
SI, for systeme internationale, a French term for `` international system '', is a system of measurement based on the metre for length, distance or displacement, kilogram for mass and second for time.
Many people call this the `` metric system, '' after the metre.
The metre, kilogram and second can be used with each other to produce units of measurement to express other qualities, such as volume, energy, pressure, and velocity.
When referring to very large or very small measurements, prefixes are used, eg.
kilometre means 1000 metres, milligram means a 1000th of a gram.
It is important to note that the SI unit of mass is the kilogram, and not the gram, even though the name kilogram means 1000 grams.
When mixed with water during bathing or washing, they help people and clothes get clean by lowing the ability of dirt and oil to hang onto skin, surfaces or fabric.
It is not toxic to water life.
However, soap is only a little bit soluble in water, so it is not often used in washing machines.
Many Soap Experts claim that soap can be made in many ways.
The main function of readability tests is to give you an idea about the density of your writing.
A person can perform readability tests himself by counting and doing some math, or by using word-processing software.
There are several popular readability scales, for example :
Textual tests give people an idea about the density of their writing.
Plays are often still divided into these two types today.
The `` Theatre of the Absurd '' plays have some of the same ideas that are found in the philosophy -LRB- a way of thinking -RRB- called existentialism.
Existentialism is very different from many other philosophies.
Most religions and philosopies say that human life has a meaning -LRB- or a purpose -RRB-.
The philosophy of existentialism is that human life does not have a meaning -LRB- or a purpose -RRB-.
When something has no meaning, it is `` absurd ''.
-LRB- absurd means means silly and meaningless. -RRB-
The plays written in this style make people think about questions like `` what is it like to be a person in the world ? ''
and `` what does it mean for a person to be free ? ''
They are often filled with sad emotions, such as worry, fear, and thoughts about death.
Common time horizons people use are :
end of day, usually meaning the working day ;
the weekend ;
end of month ;
fiscal quarter ;
end of school term ;
end of calendar year
and end of fiscal year.
It is very important to know at what time horizon something you are doing will be scored, evaluated, marked or paid for.
Sports, for example football -LRB- soccer -RRB- and basketball, often have time limits.
Baseball and others do not, which sometimes cause problems.
Baseball and others do not, which sometimes causes problems.
Politically, when not referring to the Republic of China, Taiwan is a province that is made up of this island and the Pescadores islands nearby.
The People 's Republic of China claims that Taiwan belongs to it, and does not think the Republic of China has a right to exist.
Taiwan can also mean :
The Republic of China -LRB- ROC -RRB-.
The Taiwan Province of the ROC.
Taiwan has three large Han Chinese groups.
They differ in language and places where they or their ancestors came from : the Southern Fujianese -LRB- from China 's Fujian Province, the Hakka -LRB- from China -RRB-, and Mainlanders -LRB- from Mainland China after 1948 -RRB-.
The People 's Republic of China says that Taiwan belongs to it, and does not think the Republic of China has a right to exist.
But many Taiwanese do not think so.
However, according to this website, these so-called `` Han Chinese '' were really Taiwanese Aborigines who were forced to become like Chinese by the Qing Dynasty.
The Communist Party of China -LRB- CCP -RRB- establishes Beijing as the capital of The People 's Republic of China -LRB- PRC -RRB-.
2004 : Chen Shui-bian is re-elected after a controversial assassination attempt, in which many believed, was staged by Chen.
Today most countries of the world recognize the People 's Republic of China as China.
Even though Taiwan is not recognized by UN as a sovereign nation, most countries still have very close economic and cultural relationship with the island of Taiwan.
The government of China have said that if the people of Taiwan formally votes to become the Republic of Taiwan, they will invade Taiwan.
In March 2004, China 's government passed a law that will allow China to invade Taiwan if the people of Taiwan vote to become the Republic of Taiwan.
Taiwan is a democratic island country, known as the Republic of China.
Before that time there were only native people living there.
A Chinese general named Koxinga, defeats and drives away the Dutch at the Siege of Fort Zeelandia.
1860 : Taiwan becomes a treaty port following the Treaty of Tientsin, opening the island to contact with the world.
European and American merchants use and trade -LRB- especially camphor -RRB-.
1895 : Qing China loses the First Sino-Japanese War and gives Taiwan to Japan.
1911 : The Republic of China begins in China.
1945 : Japan loses in World War II and gives up Taiwan and other colonial territories.
The following is a simple version of what many people feel to be orders from God.
They have had a long influence on the development of Western ethics and law from the Roman Empire to the present day.
You must not bear false witness.
You must never be envious of another person 's house or possessions, or want to have sex with their spouse
-LRB- Note : Adultery is when somebody has sex with a married person other than their own spouse.
There is some controversy whether it included unmarried people having sex with each other, originally, although it seems likely.
Also whether desire or lust to do so is considered to be an aspect of adultery, which seems wrong, since this desire is dealt with separately.
Also, there is some question as to whether all lying is really wrong or forbidden, especially to protect another, or just perjury.
And, finally, whether war or other leader authorized killing is murder, since the Old Testament God also commands the Israelites to commit what we now would call a genocide -RRB-.
I am the Lord your God, who freed you from slavery in Egypt.
Do not worship any god other than Me.
You must never make any statues or pictures for worship.
You must never use the Name of God disrespectfully.
Remember to observe the Sabbath as a holy day.
Honor your father and your mother.
You must never commit murder.
You must never commit adultery.
You must never steal.
You must not bear false witness.
You must never be envious of another person 's house or possessions, or want to have sex with their spouse
HEADING Commandments in the Bible
However, there is a continuous story being told starting in Exodus 31:18 -LRB- where the stones are created -RRB-, Exodus 32:19 -LRB- where the tablets are broken -RRB- and Exodus 34.
This story lists a very different set of commandments.
This version is sometimes called `` Ritual Decalogue ''.
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and the people after him who followed the documentary hypothesis, note that Exodus 34:28 seems to refer to these Ten Commandments rather than the traditional ones.
These people thought that the commandments in Exodus 20 and Deuteronomy 5 show a later set of Ten Commandments, and that the ten listed in Exodus 34 were the original Ten Commandments, now known as the Ritual Decalogue -LRB- as opposed to the better-known `` Ethical Decalogue '' -RRB-.
The differences between the two Decalogues highlight the development of sacred texts over a long time and from differing narrative traditions by incorporating two differing sets of Ten Commandments.
The Bible does not say this includes unmarried people having sex with each other, although some people think so.
This is not the first time Christians assembled together on a Sunday ; Jesus appeared to the Christians on the `` first day of the week '' while they were in hiding.
This would seem to show that while the Sabbath was still of importance to the Jews, Sunday was a separate day for worship and teaching from Scriptures.
HEADING Externalinks
Global Trees Campaign website
Botanic Gardens Conservation International website
There lots of trees.
Trees good
There lots trees.
Here some :
Trees plant.
Trees good.
The heights of the tallest trees in the world have been argued.
Modern verified measurements with lasers, other measuring devices, or with tape drop measurements made by tree climbers -LRB- such as those carried out by canopy researchers or members of groups like the U.S. Eastern Native Tree Society -RRB-, have shown that some older methods and measurements are often not exact or as good as the modern ones, sometimes giving exaggerations of 5% to 15% or more above the real height.
Historical claims of trees growing to, and even, are now largely thought of as not exact, and attributed to human error.
Old records of fallen trees measured prostrate on the ground are considered to be somewhat more reliable.
Giant Sequoia : 1,487 m -LRB- 52,508 cu ft -RRB-, General Sherman
Coast Redwood : 1,203 m -LRB- 42,500 cu ft -RRB-, Lost MonarchProf Stephen Sillett 's webpage with photogallery including : a general gallery, canopy views, epiphytes, and arboreal animals.
Montezuma Cypress : 750 m -LRB- 25,000 cu ft -RRB-, Árbol del TuleENTSTrees - Árbol del Tule
Western Redcedar : 500 m -LRB- 17,650 cu ft -RRB-,
Tasmanian Blue Gum : 368 m -LRB- 13,000 cu ft -RRB-, Rullah Longatyle -LRB- Strong Girl, also Grieving Giant -RRB- http://gianttrees.com.au/pdf/register.pdf.
Australian Mountain-ash : 360 m -LRB- 12,714 cu ft -RRB-, Arve Big Tree
Coast Douglas-fir 349 m -LRB- 12,320 cu ft -RRB- Red Creek Tree
Sitka Spruce 337 m -LRB- 11,920 cu ft -RRB- Queets Spruce
Australian Oak : 337 m -LRB- 11,920 cu ft -RRB- Gothmog
Alpine Ash : 286 m -LRB- 10,100 cu ft -RRB-, located in Styx River Valley
Tree stems are mainly made of support and transport tissues -LRB- xylem and phloem -RRB-.
As an exogenous -LRB- growing from outside -RRB- tree grows, it creates growth rings as new wood is laid down concentrically over the old wood.
The roots of a tree are generally down in earth, providing for the above-ground biomass and absorbing -LRB- taking in -RRB- water and nutrients from the soil.
However, while ground nutrients are needed for a tree 's growth the majority of its biomass comes from carbon dioxide absorbed from the atmosphere -LRB- see photosynthesis -RRB-.
Taxonomy is a science.
It is about the classification of living things.
It is part of biology.
Theft is a crime, consisting of one 's taking from another person, business, or state any object, money, or information they have not authorized him to have or use.
However, the practice of engaging in theft is also called stealing.
When the southern and western parts of Ireland split away and became a different country in 1921 the northern part stayed a part of the United Kingdom.
It is made up of four countries, what used to be the two kingdoms of England and Scotland, the principality of Wales -LRB- all three on the island of Great Britain -RRB-, and the province of Northern Ireland -LRB- on the island of Ireland -RRB-.
Most people in the UK speak English.
England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales have separate systems of education.
They have in common that education is required from ages five to sixteen.
The theory accepted by scientists today is called the `` Big Bang ''.
It tells us the universe was gathered at a small point, and then began expanding -LRB- `` bang '' -RRB- a long time ago.
No one knows for sure how it was formed, but the theory accepted by most scientists today is called the `` Big Bang ''.
However, using a different definition, some cosmologists have thought that the `` Universe '' composed of getting bigger space-as-we-know-it, is just one of many disconnected `` universes '', which are collectively called the multiverse.
For example, in the many-worlds hypothesis, new `` universes '' are created with every quantum measurement.
However, in bubble universe idea, there may be an infinite variety of `` universes '' created in various ways, and maybe each with different physical constants.
The Aristotelian model was accepted in the Western world for roughly two millennia, until Copernicus revived Aristarchus ' theory that the astronomical data could be explained in a more believable way if the earth rotated on its axis and if the sun were placed at the center of the Universe.
According to special relativity, one can change a spatial and time separation -LRB- L1, t1 -RRB- into another -LRB- L2, t2 -RRB- by changing one 's reference frame, as long as the change maintains the spacetime s. Such a change in reference frame is having to do with changing one 's motion ; in a moving frame, lengths and times are different from their counterparts in a stationary reference frame.
where -LRB- r,, -RRB- are related to a spherical coordinate system.
The term Universe may be used in slightly different ways, meaning different ideas such as the ', the world, or Nature.
The Universe is usually used to mean `` the area being around everything. ''
But, using a different definition, some cosmologists have thought that the `` Universe '' composed of getting bigger space-as-we-know-it, is just one of many disconnected `` universes '', which are collectively called the multiverse.
These universes are usually thought to be completely disconnected from our own and that makes it impossible to detect experimentally.
In recorded history, several cosmologies and cosmogonies have been proposed to make up for observations of the Universe.
Recent observations show that this expansion is happening because of dark energy, and that most of the matter in the Universe may be in a form which can not be detected by present computers -LRB- and other machines -RRB-, and so is not accounted for in the present models of the universe ; this has been named dark matter.
Current ways of thinking of astronomical observations show that the universe has edxisted for 13.73 -LRB- 0.12 -RRB- billion years, and that the diameter of the observable universe is at least 93 billion light years, or 8.80 According to general relativity, space can get bigger faster than the speed of light, but we can view only a small part of the universe due to the limitation imposed by light speed.
Since we can not see space beyond the limitations of light -LRB- or any electromagnetic radiation -RRB-, is not completely certain whether the size of the Universe is finite or infinite.
The word Universe comes from the Old French word Univers, which comes from the Latin word universum.
A different interpretation of unvorsum is `` everything rotated as one '' or `` everything rotated by one ''.
In this sense, it may be thought of as a translation of an earlier Greek word for the Universe,, `` something transported in a circle '', originally used to describe a course of a meal, the food being carried around the circle of dinner guests.
More normally, the Universe is thought to be everything that exists, has existed, and will exist.
The Universe is everything that exists.
The word Universe can be used in ways that do not mean the same thing.
Examples of this are ', the world, or Nature.
The Universe is very large and possibly infinite in volume ; the matter that can be seen is spread over a space at least 93 billion light years across.
The matter that can be seen is spread throughout the universe, when averaged over distances longer than 300 million light-years.
However, on smaller length-scales, matter is observed to form `` clumps '', many atoms are condensed into stars, most stars into galaxies, most galaxies into clusters, superclusters and, lastly, the largest-scale structures such as the Great Wall of galaxies.
The Universe is old and changing.
The most precise estimate of the Universe 's age is 13.73 0.12 billion years old, based on what was seen of the cosmic microwave background radiation.
The universe has not been the same at all times in its history.
These universes are usually thought to be completely not touching from our own and that makes it impossible for us to find experimentally.
The best good guess of the Universe 's age is 13.73 0.12 billion years old, based on what was seen of the cosmic microwave background radiation.
This getting bigger accounts for how Earth-bound pople can see the light from a galaxy 30 billion light years away, even if that light has traveled for only 13 billion years ; the very space between them has expanded.
But, using a different word meaning, some people have thought that the `` Universe '' made of getting bigger space-as-we-know-it, is just one of many `` universes '', which, when put together, are called the multiverse.
HEADING Etymology, synonyms and meaning
HEADING Broadest meaning : reality and probability
The broadest word meaning of the Universe is found in De divisione naturae by the medieval philosopher Johannes Scotus Eriugena, who defined it as simply everything : everything that exists and everything that does not exist.
More improvements in astronomy led to people realizing that the Solar System is in a galaxy made of millions of stars, the Milky Way, and that other galaxies exist outside it, as far as machines can reach.
According to the most used scientific model of the Universe, known as the Big Bang, the Universe from a very hot, dense phase called the Planck epoch, in which all the matter and energy of the observable universe was concentrated.
Current ways of thinking of astronomical observations show that the universe has existed for 13.73 -LRB- 0.12 -RRB- billion years, and that the diameter of the observable universe is at least 93 billion light years, or 8.80 According to general relativity, space can get bigger faster than the speed of light, but we can view only a small part of the universe because of the speed of light.
The Latin word is from the poetic contraction Unvorsum -- first used by Lucretius in Book IV -LRB- line 262 -RRB- of his De rerum natura -LRB- On the Nature of Things -RRB- -- which connects un, uni -LRB- the combining form of unus, or `` one '' -RRB- with vorsum, versum -LRB- a noun made from the perfect passive participle of vertere, meaning `` something rotated, rolled, changed '' -RRB-.
A different -LRB- way to interpret -RRB- of unvorsum is `` everything rotated as one '' or `` everything rotated by one ''.
This Greek word refers to an early Greek model of the Universe.
In that model, all matter was in rotating spheres centered on the Earth ; according to Aristotle, the rotation of the outermost sphere was for the motion and change of everything within.
Other synonyms for the Universe among the ancient Greek philosophers included -LRB- meaning the world, the cosmos -RRB- and -LRB- meaning Nature, from which we the word physics -RRB-.
This all-embracing definition was not adopted by most later philosophers, but something similar reappears in quantum physics, maybe most obviously in the path-integral formulation of Feynman.
This definition says that the Universe is made of three elements : space and time, together known as space-time or the vacuum ; matter and different forms of energy and momentum space-time ; and the physical laws that govern the first two.
A similar definition of the term Universe is everything that exists at a single moment of cosmological time, such as the present or the beginning of time, as in the sentence `` The Universe was of size 0 ''.
The three elements of the Universe -LRB- spacetime, matter-energy, and physical law -RRB- to the ideas of Aristotle.
HEADING Models
Models of the Universe were thought of and talked about soon after astronomy began with the Babylonian astronomers, who viewed the Universe as a flat disk floating in the ocean, and this forms the premise for early Greek maps like those of Anaximander and Hecataeus of Miletus.
Different units of measurement used to be very common.
Now there is a global standard, the Metric System : kilometer, meter, centimeter, millimeter are the units of distance or linear size in this system.
Except in the United States, everyone will know how to translate from these units.
Therefore, we explain how to translate into `` American '' here - but for more detail see American units of measurement.
In metric :
The unit of volume is the metric liter which is used for water, petrol and other liquid.
A liter is equal to a 10cm by 10cm cube of liquid.
There are 3.8 liters in one US gallon.
A milliliter is a 1cm by 1cm cube - this is also called ml or cubic centimeter or one CC.
Cooks use this measurement.
A typical teaspoon is about one ml in size.
The unit of mass is the metric gram which is quite small.
On Earth it weighs the same as a 1cm by 1cm cube -LRB- a milliliter or ml or cubic centimeter or one CC -RRB- of water at exactly 0 degrees Celsius, a bit too warm to turn into ice.
A more common measure is the kilogram.
This weighs the same as a liter of water - exactly 1000 grams because 10x10x10 = 1000.
The metric tonne is 1000 kilograms, a million grams.
The unit of time is the second.
The minute -LRB- 60 seconds -RRB- and hour -LRB- 60 minutes or 3600 seconds -RRB- are larger units.
The day is usually said to be 24 hours, but is actually a tiny bit longer.
This difference is corrected at the end of every year.
A week -LRB- 7 days -RRB- and month are also standards in most places, but there are different calendars.
These are not part of metric but are used in finance and other industries that set some standards.
Standards are very important.
Each unit is a set size.
A distance or length or volume or mass or span of time being measured is described as a certain number of these units.
Sometimes more than one unit is used to get better accuracy, or a smaller unit is used - so one can say `` one meter 95 centimeters '' or just `` 195 centimeters ''.
The imperial units now used only in the United States : inch, foot, yard, mile, and the US gallon, smaller than the old imperial gallon, about 4.5 liters, which is now not used anywhere much.
Some older bottles, jugs and liquid containers are this size.
A confusing issue is that there are 128 fluid ounces in a US gallon, but there are also 16 ounces in a pound, an older measure of weight that is 1\/2.2 of a kilogram.
These are two different measurements with exactly the same name - it is only when measuring water that they actually mean the same.
A unit of measurement that applies to money is called a unit of account.
This is normally a currency issued by a country - and smaller divisions.
For instance the US dollar and US cent, which is 1\/100 of a dollar.
Or the Euro and Eurocent.
Science, medicine and engineering use larger and smaller units of measurement than these, and talk about them more exactly.
For instance the difference between mass and weight matters a lot more in these fields.
Now there is a global standard, the Metric System -LRB- known in much of the world as Systeme Internationale -LRB- or SI -RRB- : kilometre, metre, centimetre, millimetre are the units of distance or linear size in this system.
Except in the United States, many will know how to translate from these units.
For more detail see US units of measurement.
The unit of volume is the metric litre which is used for water, petrol and other liquid.
A litre is equal to a 10cm by 10cm by 10 cm -LRB- or decimetre cube.
There are approximately 3.78541 litres in one US gallon.
A millilitre is a 1cm by 1cm cube - this is also called ml or cubic centimeter or one CC.
Cooks often use this measurement.
A typical teaspoon is about 5 ml in size.
The unit of mass is the metric gram which ; on Earth is quite light.
On Earth it weighs the same as a 1 millilitre of water at exactly 0 degrees Celsius, a bit too warm to turn into ice.
This weighs the same as a litre of water - exactly 1000 grams because 10x10x10 = 1000.
Sometimes more than one unit is used to get better accuracy, or a smaller unit is used - so one can say `` one metre, 95 centimetres '' or just `` 195 centimetres ''.
The imperial units now used mainly in the United States : inch, foot, yard, mile, and the US gallon, smaller than the old imperial gallon -LRB- UK Gallon -RRB-, about 4.5 liters, which is now not used anywhere much.
The unit of mass is the kilogram.
A kilogram -LRB- kg -RRB- weighs the same as a litre of water -LRB- at normal temperature, and pressure -RRB-.
Its atmosphere contains hydrogen, helium and methane.
Uranus is named after the Greek god Uranus, who was a god of sky.
Uranus has 27 known moons.
The names for these moons are chosen from characters from the works of Shakespeare and Alexander Pope.
The five biggest moons are Miranda, Ariel, Umbriel, Titania and Oberon.
The number changes often.
little green aliens do not live on neptune.
Little green aliens do not live in uranus.
A university is a place, a school.
Students learn at a university after high school -LRB- secondary school -RRB-.
Teachers at a university educate and do research in difficult subjects.
In the United States there is a group of famous and good universities called the Ivy League.
Harvard University, Princeton University and Yale University are the most famous in the Ivy League.
Other famous universities are MIT and Cal Tech.
Volapük became less popular after 1887 when Esperanto was published.
Part of the reason was because Esperanto was easier to learn.
`` Vol '' and `` pük '' come from the English words `` world '' and `` speech ''.
Basic grammar of Volapük, in Esperanto
If you are an grown-up who has studied at university or college you may know at least 20000 words in your own language.
The vocabulary of a language is always changing.
New words are invented or words change their meaning.
This means that dictionaries have to be updated.
Words to do with computers such as `` download '' are new to the English language.
The new word `` bling '' came from hip hop.
Words like `` gay '' and `` cool '' have developed new meanings.
Words that you only understand but would not use are your `` passive vocabulary ''.
In English, some long words may be hard to understand.
This could be because they were taken from Latin or Greek.
This makes Venus the hottest planet in the Solar System with an average temperature of.
The Vatican City is a very small -LRB- less than a kilometre in any direction -RRB- country which is inside the city of Rome, Italy.
It is the smallest country in the world.
It contains the Holy See, the central headquarters for the Catholic Church.
The Popes had always prevented any way of being united with Italy, to avoid losing their power upon the Papal state.
The Vatican City is the smallest country in the world -LRB- 0,44 km -RRB- and it is in Italian territory -LRB- inside Italy -RRB-, totally included in the city of Rome.
The Head of State is the Pope, now Benedict XVI, former cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, elected on April 19 2005, after Pope John Paul II 's 26 years of Papacy.
The Vatican City is the smallest country in the world -LRB- 0,44 km -RRB- and it is an enclave of Italy because it is surrounded by the city of Rome.
It was created as country on February 11 1929, with the `` Patti Lateranensi '' -LRB- Lateran Agreement or Treaty -RRB-, was signed by Benito Mussolini and Pope Pius XI.
Though little, it is very important because it is the headquarters of the Roman Catholic Church.
It is important also by the side of culture and art : its masterpieces are known by everybody in the world : St. Peter 's Square, St. Peter 's Basilica, the Sistine Chapel, the Vatican Museums and the Apostolic Palace, where the Pope lives.
There are also hundreds of other sculptures and pictures.
The Pope used to rule the Papal States.
This used to cover all of Central Italy.
Popes had always tried to stop Italy becoming one country because they might lose their power over the Papal States.
In 1861 Italy was unified under the King of Savoy, but Rome and Latium remained unconquered.
Only on September 20 1870 the Italian troops invaded beat the Popes troops.
Rome became capital of the new kingdom.
The Pope said he was a prisoner of the Italian state and excommunicated all the people who helped the people who invaded his state.
This stopped Catholics from taking part in public life.
In 1929 Benito Mussolini decided to sign an agreement with the Holy See, called the Lateran Treaty, which created the Vatican State.
Another treaty gave the Vatican money each year to compensate for the lost territories.
It is also important for its culture and art.
The Vatican 's masterpieces are known by everybody in the world : St. Peter 's Square, St. Peter 's Basilica, the Sistine Chapel, the Vatican Museums and the Apostolic Palace, where the Pope lives.
The Pope said he was a prisoner of the Italian state and excommunicated all the people who helped invade his state.
The velocity of a moving object is the distance it travels in unit time.
The velocity of something is how far it goes.
It is usually found by dividing how far the start point to finish point is, over how long it takes to get there :
velocity = distance
Velocity or speed is the distance that an moves in a certain amount of time.
It is a measure of how fast something is moving.
In physics, velocity is a vector quantity, meaning that it not only indicates speed, but also the direction of movement.
A virtual community is a group of people who share an interest or set of views.
A virtual community does not exist in any one place in the world.
The people in it may come from many different places.
Virtual communities communicate with each other using technology, such as the Internet, telephone calls, and the mail.
The most common is the Internet.
HEADING How Virtual Communities Communicate
Virtual communities may use any of the following to communicate :
Internet
Message Boards or Forums
Chat Rooms
Websites
Instant Messengers
Telephone
Conference calls -LRB- where more than 2 people can talk at one time -RRB-
The Mail
A newsletter
A magazine
Virtual communities communicate -LRB- talk -RRB- with each other using technology, such as the Internet, telephone calls, and the mail.
The World Wide Web is not used to describe HTML webpages that are not part of the Internet.
WikiWiki is a word from the language of Hawaii which means `` fast ''.
This word is now used on the internet -LRB- see net jargon -RRB- as a name for a kind of website -- like Wikipedia -- that lets any person change a page.
Like this, pages can be changed often and if a person writes something false, it can be fixed quickly and easily.
This only works if all people are working toward the same goal.
It also means that people who have different ways of thinking -LRB- opinions -RRB- other people do n't have can keep coming back and keep changing the page to say only what they think.
In theory, more people can fix mistakes.
In reality, they may care about something less than needed, or they may be scared to fix things.
It also means that people who have different ways of thinking -LRB- opinions -RRB- that other people do n't have can keep coming back and keep changing the page to say only what they think.
The next person can also add something new to the page.
Because of this, the page gets better whenever someone edits it.
Examples of wikis include Wikipedia, Anarchopedia, and Conservapedia.
People look at websites with a computer of some kind, sometimes including the computer inside mobile telephone and televisions.
The websites are kept on computers called web servers.
Sites are good for looking up information on the computer.
A web browser is a computer program.
They use rules such as HTTP -LRB- Hypertext Transfer Protocol -RRB- to transfer data with the World Wide Web.
It is in the form of text and images.
Web pages are connected by links.
Clicking on a link makes another webpage appear.
The word wine is usually used to talk about drinks made from the juice of grapes, although people sometimes call alcoholic drinks made from the juice of other fruits -LRB- such as plums or blackberries -RRB- `` wine ''.
The countries that drink the most wine -LRB- using numbers from the year 2000 -RRB- are :
However, if you make a list of countries where the average person drinks the most wine, the list is different :
In mathematics, width is the distance between the end of an farthest to the left and the end of an object farthest to the right.
For example, if the distance between the left side and right side of a chair is the width of it.
It has no smell, taste, or noticable color.
If water becomes very cold, it freezes.
Frozen rain can be ice or snow.
Water is important to living cells because it can dissolve many things.
Therefore, it gives a medium for chemical reactions to take place, and carries things around the body in blood.
It helps to keep the body temperature unchanging by sweating from the skin.
It helps make urine.
Thus a little water forms drops on a surface, rather than spreading out to wet the surface.
Sweat helps stop the body from becoming too hot.
Plants and animals -LRB- including people -RRB- must drink water to live.
Water is important to living cells because it can dissolve many things.
It gives a medium for chemical reactions to take place, and carries things around the body in blood.
It helps to keep the body temperature unchanging by sweating from the skin.
Water helps blood carry nutrients from the stomach to all parts of the body to keep the body alive.
Water also dilutes bad things in the body.
Water helps make urine.
Urine helps remove bad chemicals from the body.
Water is the main component of drinks like milk, juice, and wine.
Each type of drink also has other things that add flavor or nutrients, things like sugar, fruit, and sometimes alcohol.
It has no smell, taste, or color that you can notice.
War is any fighting involving the organized use of arms and harmful force between countries or other large-scale armed groups.
War is any fighting involving the organized use of weapons and harmful force between countries or other large-scale groups.
The signing of the Kellogg-Briand Pact and the development of the United Nations System have succeeded to discourage calling any conflict a war.
Examples :
Wars have been fought to control natural resources, for religious or cultural reasons, over political balances of power, legitimacy -LRB- legality -RRB- of particular laws, to settle economic and territorial arguements, and many other issues.
The reasons of any war
Those who see this difference usually only use the word `` war '' for the fighting where the countries ' governments have officially declared war on each other.
When one country sends armed forces to another country, supposedly to rebuild order or prevent genocide or other crimes against humanity, or to support another government friendly to it against an uprising, that country sometimes refers to it as a police action.
This usage is not always recognized as valid, however, particularly by those who do not accept the connotations -LRB- implications -RRB- of the term.
A war where the forces in conflict reside -LRB- live in -RRB- within the same country is known as a civil war.
Operational art in the first generation did not exist as a idea although it was practiced by individual commanders, most famously by Napoleon.
Tactics were based on fire and movement but they remained linear, with the defense still trying to prevent all penetrations and the attacks along a sideways line advanced by rushes in small groups.
Second generation tactics remained the basis of U.S. policy until the 1980s, and they are still practiced by most American units in the field.
Third generation warfare was first developed by the Germans in World War I, to make up for their inability to match their enemies ' industrial production.
Its tactics were the first truly nonlinear tactics ; attacks rely on penetration to get around and collapse the enemy 's combat forces -LRB- rather than seeking to get close to the enemy and destroy them -RRB-, and defense was in depth and often provoked -LRB- invited or encouraged -RRB- penetration to set the enemy up for a counterattack.
Fourth generation warfare is what most people call a guerrilla war.
Fourth generation warfare is far different from the other generations as the objective is not winning a military victory, but rather to destroy the spirit or political means of the enemy from attacking you.
Usually it is when a country is brought into another one or when an outside force is trying to destroy the current goverment.
The insurgents -LRB- rebels -RRB-, although small in number, give the American people the feeling that they are losing the war when really the insurgents are losing men and support from the local population for every attack they make.
The most pervasive and famous of those are the Geneva conventions, the earliest of which began to take effect in the mid-1800s.
Treaty signing has since been a part of international diplomacy, and too many treaties to mention in this article have been signed.
War is a conflict among political groups or countries using the organized violences in the popular sense.
War is any fighting involving the organized use of weapons and harmful force between countries or other groups of people.
One year is about 365 days long -LRB- Except in a Leap year -RRB-.
It is the time it takes the Earth to go completely around -LRB- Orbit -RRB- the sun once.
A year is actually 365 1/4 days long, but a calendar has 365 days, except in a leap year.
A yard is an open space around a house, school, or other building.
For instance, the space around a school is called a school yard.
A yard is used by humans and their pets.
If there is wild space next to it, like forest land, swamp land, a beach or a lake, this will not normally be considered `` part of '' the yard - the yard ends at the edge of it.
A yard is also one of several US units of measurement, meaning three of the US foot in length.
For instance, the American football field is 100 yards long, not counting the end zones.
The Chinese language is the language of the people of China -- most often referring to the Mandarin language.
The Chinese language is the language of China -- most often referring to the Mandarin language.
Chinese characters are from from over 5000 years.
Japanese language also uses Chinese characters.
The Japanese language also uses Chinese characters.
In Mainland China and Singapore, people use this more simple characters.
Most often, when people say the Chinese language, they refer to the Mandarin language.
Nowadays the Mandarin language uses Hanyu pinyin to represent the sounds in Roman letters.
The Traditional Characters are now used in Hong Kong and Taiwan.
Chinese from Mainland China uses the Simplified Characters, but may recognize Traditional Characters.
Before 1956, every Chinese uses the Traditional characters.
Because of the use of Simplified Characters, currently in China, more than 90% of the people have learned to read and write Chinese.
But still keeping the chocloate milk away.
In 1956, the government of the People 's Republic of China made public a set of simplified Chinese characters to make learning, reading and writing the Chinese language easier.
In Mainland China and Singapore, people use these simpler characters.
A Chinese person with a good education today knows 6,000-7,000 characters.
It forms one of the two groups of a language family called the Sino-Tibetan family of languages.
Chinese can refer to the written or the spoken languages.
Chinese is special because although there are many spoken languages, they use only one way of writing the language.
Chinese characters have existed for over 5000 years.
They call these different languages `` fang yan '' to tell them apart from one another.
-LRB- `` Fang '' means `` part of the country '' and `` yan '' means `` speech, '' so literally it means `` the speech of one part of the country. '' -RRB-
They have one standard language for all of the schools in China and Taiwan.
It is also a standard for language teaching in some other countries.
In English we call it Mandarin.
In China they call it `` pu tong hua '' or `` common to everybody speech. ''
In Taiwan they call it `` Guo yu '' or `` language of the whole country. ''
They need a standard language because otherwise even though they are in the same country many people could not understand each other.
The Chinese language is like a big tree.
The base of the tree started thousands of years ago.
It now has several main limbs.
Some people call `` just a branch '' what other people call a main limb, so you can say there are six or seven main limbs.
Each of these main limbs splits off into branches about the way there are branches of English spoken in Great Britain, the United States, Australia, India, and so forth.
Line the Chinese limbs up by number of speakers and we get : Mandarin, the language spoken in an area centering on Shanghai, the language spoken in Guangdong province -LRB- Cantonese -RRB-, the language spoken mostly in Fujian province -LRB- but also by many speakers in Taiwan -RRB-, the language spoken mostly in Hunan province, a language that is historically that of a refugee group and so not so closely concentrated in any one area in south-east China -LRB- it is called `` Hakka '' or `` guest family '' speech -RRB-, and a language spoken in an area that centers on Jiangxi province.
Just as the Romance languages all come from the area around Rome and are based on Latin, the Chinese languages all have some common source, so they keep many common things among them.
Chinese is used by the Han people in China and other groups who have come into China and think of themselves as Chinese.
They also give some indication of pronunciation.
But just as `` Xavier '' sounds very different in English -LRB- ex-aye-vee-er -RRB-, French -LRB- za-vee-aye -RRB-, and Spanish -LRB- hah-veer -RRB-, the same character can get very different pronunciations among the seven main limbs of Chinese, or even sometimes from branch to branch.
Since Chinese characters have been around for at least 3500 years, it is no wonder that people in places far from each other would say them differently, just as `` 1, 2, 3 '' can be read differently in different languages.
Chinese people needed to write down pronunciations in dictionaries.
Chinese does not have an alphabet, so how to write down sounds was a big problem in the beginning.
This means that they use high and low pitches to help make differences in meaning clear.
Chinese does not have very many syllables.
For instance, the words for `` mama, '' `` hemp, '' `` horse, '' `` scold, '' and a kind of question-mark word put at the end of sentences to make them into questions are all pronounced `` ma '' in Mandarin.
So for `` mom '' you say `` ma '' high and level.
For `` hemp '' you say `` ma '' starting low and ending high. ''
For `` horse '' you say `` ma '' starting fairly high, dipping very low, and then going back up again.
For `` scold '' you say `` ma '' starting high and ending low.
Then to make a question out of a statement you add `` ma, '' but you keep it very soft and short, and about on the same level.
Mandarin has `` first tone, '' `` second tone, '' `` third tone, '' `` fourth tone, '' and `` neutral tone. ''
Other Chinese languages have more tones, some as many as nine.
Here are the main seven main groups of languages\/dialects of Chinese by size :
Guan -LRB- Mandarin -RRB- \/ or \/, -LRB- about 850 million speakers -RRB-
Wu \/, which includes Shanghainese, -LRB- about 90 million speakers -RRB-
Yue -LRB- Cantonese -RRB- \/, -LRB- about 80 million speakers -RRB-
Min -LRB- Fujianese, which includes Taiwanese -RRB- \/, -LRB- about 50 million speakers -RRB-,
Xiang, -LRB- about 35 million speakers -RRB-,
Hakka or, -LRB- about 35 million speakers -RRB-
Gan \/, -LRB- about20 million -RRB-
These are known in Korean as ninja.
The Japanese language uses them even more often.
These characters are known in Korean as Hanja and in Japanese as Kanji.
It is not a pronoun, as in, `` zero says... '', `` zero does... ''.
Instead, one says `` no one says... '', `` no one does... ''.
The number zero is not a positive number.
The number zero is not a negative number.
The number zero is a whole number.
The number zero is not usually an ordinal number.
Any number divided by itself yields a quotient of one, except if that number is zero.
In symbols :
When measuring time, zero means `` now '.
For example, John is counting the time to an event.
John counts ''..., T minus 3, T minus 2, T minus 1, T minus 0 ''.
The time `` T minus 0 '' is the same as the time of the event.
If John is counting the time since an event, John counts `` T plus 1, T plus 2, T plus 3,... ''
HEADING References
If there are zero things, there are not any things.
For example, it is not allowed to divide eleven by zero.
Any number divided by itself yields a result of one, except if that number is zero.
Zero is almost never used as a place number -LRB- ordinal number -RRB-.
HEADING 0 as a number
HEADING The numerical digit zero
0 -LRB- zero -RRB- is also used as a numerical digit used to represent that number in numerals.
It is used to hold the place of that digit, because correct placing of digits affects a numeral 's value.
Examples :
In the numeral 10, which stands for one times ten and zero units -LRB- or ones -RRB-.
In the numeral 100, which stands for one times a hundred plus zero tens plus zero units.
The zero with a dot in the center seems to have begun as a choice on IBM 3270 controllers -LRB- this has the problem that it looks like the Greek letter Theta -RRB-.
Many zoos are centers where rare animals are preserved when they are in danger of dying out.
Simple English Wikipedia
From Wikipedia, a free encyclopedia in simple English.
From Wikipedia, the free simple English encyclopedia.
Page for printing
-LRB- From http://simple.wikipedia.org -RRB-
If you do not want to give us your e-mail address, it ok.
But if we have your e-mail, we will not give to anybody else.
The address will only be used by another Wikipedia user, and even that person can not see your address, but only a `` E-mail this user '' link.
Also, if you later forget your password, we can e-mail it to you.
You have logged in
Change summary
If you have just clicked a red link, you were blocked from creating a new page as no article on that topic is there yet.
If you are logged in with an account but you do not have a registered e-mail address, then please go to to set one.
When you were changing the article, another also changed and saved his changes before you.
This is an.
There two edit boxes below.
Your changes are in the second box.
The box shows the article now -LRB- after the other person 's change -RRB-.
You should not ignore the new changes, but should merge your changes into the first box.
Only the text in the first edit box will be saved when you
When you were changing the article, someone else also made changes.
You should not ignore the new changes, but should add your changes into the first box.
Do n't be afraid to create and improve articles !
If your changes are not perfect, they can always be fixed by other editors.
Please make sure that what you write is not under copyright, and can be verified -LRB- proven to be true -RRB-, or else it will be deleted -- see below for more.
My settings
NOTICE : Simple English Wikipedia does n't let you upload images -LRB- pictures or photos -RRB- any more.
-LRB- See our. -RRB-
This means, if you want to use a picture file in an article on Simple, you must upload it at, instead of using this page.
`` Commons '' is the place that shares images with all the Wikimedia projects -LRB- Wikipedia, Wikibooks, Wiktionary, Wikisource, Wikiquote -RRB-, in every language.
Whenever a picture is placed on the Commons, it can be used here -LRB- and everywhere else, too -RRB- right away.
Please read for more.
Because of our NO UPLOAD policy, any image you upload to Simple English Wikipedia with this page, may be deleted with no warning by an administrator.
Random article
My watch pages
You have been autoblocked because your IP address has been recently used by '' ''.
The reason that $ 1 was blocked is because : `` $ 2 ''
This is a log of people who have been blocked or unblocked from changing this site.
A copyright gives its holder the right to stop copying without proper permission and reproduction of an original expression.
A copyright gives its holder the right to stop the act of copying a work or expression without proper permission.
Breaking a copyright law is called copyright infringement.
Copyright is a kind of law.
It says that if you make something, then it belongs to you.
If you write a book, or you write some music, or you draw a picture, then the thing you made belongs to you.
Other people can not make a copy of it unless you say that they can.
Copyright is an important law.
Copying something is much easier than making it.
It is very hard to write a book.
But it is easy to copy the words from a book someone else wrote.
So many people could do this.
But then, the person who wrote the book could not sell it.
Anyone who wanted it would copy it.
They would not buy it.
But then the person who wrote the book would have to do something else to get money.
They would have less time to write books.
If they write good books that would be a bad thing.
We want them to have time to write books.
Then we can read them and enjoy them.
So we have to pay for the books, so that the person who wrote them can get money.
And we have to stop people copying the books themselves, so that they have to pay for the books.
If you copy something that you did not make, and the person who made it has not said that you can copy it, then you are breaking copyright law.
Usually, if the police catch you, you will have to pay a fine to the person who made the thing you copied.
If you copied many things you might have to go to prison.
Some people say that Copyright law is bad.
They say it does not work well.
If you want to sell something you made, you have to take it to a publisher.
But the publisher has many different things to sell.
They may not want to sell the thing you made.
Or they may sell it but not give all of the money to you.
But you can not stop them.
Because without them you can not sell the thing you made.
People say this is very bad.
It stops people getting money from selling things they have made.
And copyright law does not help.
In other more serious cases, the person could be arrested or go to prison.
Once copyrighted, a work can only be copied with the creator 's permission.
Some believe that copyright laws encourage the formation of new ideas by securing the creator 's reward for their work and time.
Others believe that ideas and inventions evolve and that copyright law stifles progress.
If a person copies a copyrighted work without permission they can be punished by the law, usually with a fine.
In most countries there is no need to register to have copyright ; however, unless there is evidence of who created work and when, copyright may be difficult to prove.
A copyright is a law that gives the creator of a document, musical piece, book, and many more the right to their creation and the control of its release.
A copyright is a law that gives the maker of a document, musical piece, book, or other kind of work, the right to decide what others can do with the work they made.
This makes it easier for authors to make money by selling their works.
Because of copyright, a work can only be copied if the maker gives permission.
People who copy a work under copyright without permission can be punished by the law, usually with a fine.
In other, more serious cases, they could be arrested or go to prison.
HEADING Who owns copyright ?
In most countries, authors automatically own the copyright to any work they make -LRB- as long as they do n't give the copyright to someone else -RRB-, and there is no need to register the copyright.
But without registration, it is often difficult to prove that the copyright of a work belongs to a certain author.
So it is often a good idea to register anyway, especially for works sold for money.
If an author gets paid to make a work for someone else, the person who pays for making the work -LRB- for example, the author 's employer -RRB- will often get to own the copyright instead of the author him - or herself.
Some pieces of work are not under copyright because they are too old, or because the author did not want to keep the copyright.
These works are said to be in the public domain : no one owns the copyright to them, and everyone is free to copy, use and change them however they want.
There is an exception to the rules of copyright, called fair use.
This means that we can copy a very small amount of a work -- maybe one or two sentences, or a picture.
Most of the differences are about :
whether or not the government 's work falls under copyright,
how much longer copyright lasts after the author dies, and
what is and what is n't fair use.
Because of these differences, a certain piece of work may be under copyright in one country, and in the public domain in another.
HEADING Problems with copyright
HEADING Creativity
Some believe that copyright laws make it easier for people to make new works and think of new ideas.
After all, if authors get to make money for the time, effort and money they put in, then they will want to make more works later, and make more money.
But others believe that copyright laws make it harder to be creative.
Without copyright, other people could change ideas, works and inventions and make them better, and copyright law often stops that.
HEADING Publisher control
If an author wants to sell a work, it 's often easiest to give the copyright to a publisher.
The publisher will do all the selling, and in return for that service, will keep part of the money.
But the publisher has many different things to sell, and they may not want to sell the work the author made.
It can be very hard to find a publisher willing to sell your work.
But without a publisher, it can be even harder for an author to sell his or her work.
In many markets, a few big publishers own the copyrights to almost everything available, and stores will not want to sell works published by small authors themselves.
Many people say copyright law helps big publishers stay in control, and keeps smaller authors out of the market.
HEADING Open content
Main article : Open content
As a solution to these problems, groups of small authors have come up with the idea of open content.
With open content, authors give everyone permission to copy, change and give away or sell their works, as long as they follow certain rules.
These rules are explained in an open content license.
Some possible open content rules are :
If you change the work, or if you make a new derivative work based on it, you must give the original author credit -LRB- you must say who wrote it -RRB-.
If you publish the changed or derivative piece of work, you must let others use it under the same free license.
Under some licenses, you can not sell the piece of work or use it to make money.
The Republic of China -LRB- ROC -RRB- -LRB- Traditional Chinese :, Simplified Chinese : -RRB- is a country in East Asia that used to be called Nationalist China -LRB- but its leaders are not always Nationalists now -RRB-.
It is located southeast of Mainland China.
People there vote for their leaders from more than one political party.
Diaoyutai Islands : The Diaoyutai Islands -LRB- Diàoyútái Lièyû -RRB- are a group of islands where nobody lives that the Republic of China -LRB- Taiwan -RRB- takes care of, but claimed by the People 's Republic of China -LRB- PRC -RRB- and the Japan.
The ROC used to govern Mainland China too.
Now it is owned by the Communist People 's Republic of China see History and Political problems of China.
The Nationalists, led by Dr. Sun Yat-sen, got rid of the Qing Dynasty ruled by the Manchus, then they established the ROC and ended Imperial Dynastic Rule in late-1911.
The ROC at that time had Mainland China and all of what is now called Mongolia.
The Nationalists left mainland China while having the lands they control now.
But the Communists say they replaced the ROC as the only government of China and also calls Taiwan their own.
Some other people -LRB- about 10% -RRB- want to join with the People 's Republic of China.
But most Taiwanese -LRB- over 60% -RRB- want the status quo : things the way they are now with no change.
Most Taiwanese speak Chinese, and others speak Taiwanese or Hakka.
A small percentage of the population is aboriginal, and these people have their own languages, although unfair treatment exerted by the Chinese population have been bad, and many of these people, and their languages, struggle to survive.
Taiwanese, Hakka, and native languages were considered bad until the early 1990s, when education in these languages began to be taught in some school systems.
HEHERREHTHHRERWHEHRE+GERETH \/ RHWEGGWWG\/EGWWEGGThere is only one solutionHEHERR
KERHill edeward Peaden\/W\/GG
HHThbdfaivnaEIONBIOWEEIBJABMBIAEBNAIBNRIBNRAEBNGN8GN4SGBN4DF56BAFD4B8F4B9A8BG7RWH7R \* 9G7R3G \* 42374G \* 4HE7G4W89G489G74W\/G427G\/3G738H43589H4ER89G4RW89G748 \/ 374G34\/G742\/G742 \/ G7 \/ \* GGHEHRWHREHERHHGFGHWEAUFGWAEUGWEAHUGHUEGHWAIUOBJWERIOBJNREAOIBJNERIOBNREIBIOGHREWOGIHQAG8943YT9843Y58YU54902QUH985HG895GH39QGYQ9jgiosssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssahrqeiojnamiaejhgjiorebholjibe ` a ju
A jail -LRB- sometimes spelt Gaol -RRB- is a place run by the police to keep people locked up who :
are suspected of crimes and have not yet been to court, or whose court case is still happening ; or,
who have been convicted of a crime but only have to be kept locked up for less than a year.
A jail -LRB- sometimes spelt gaol -RRB- is a place run by the police to keep people locked up who :
A jail -LRB- sometimes spelt gaol -RRB- is a secure facility run by the police or other local or county correctional agency to detain people :
who are suspected of crimes and have not yet been to court, or who can not pay the bail amount set by the court, or who are considered too dangerous to be released to the community pending court proceedings ;
whose court case is still happening ; or,
who have been convicted of a lesser -LRB- often misdemeanor -RRB- crime with a sentence of usually one year or less.
A jail -LRB- sometimes known as `` dead nigger storage '' -RRB- is a secure facility run by the police or other local or county correctional agency to detain people :
who are niggers
A prison is a place run by a state or the law, where persons who have been guilty and convicted of serious crimes are held after being sentenced to imprisonment.
Removing offenders from society prevents them from causing futher damage in the community, punishes them for their behavior, and may prevent others who are likely to commit similar crimes from comitting them.
In-prison programming can be effective in preventing the inmate 's from committing further crime after his or her release.
Dear mexico,
I hate you.
Love,
The Entire White Race
Africa is the second largest continent in the world.
It makes up just over a fifth of the world 's land.
It is surrounded by large areas of water.
There are 61 countries in Africa, and 14% of the world 's population live there.
It is thought to be the continent where the first humans came from.
Africa is separated from :
Europe, to the north, by the Mediterranean Sea ;
Asia, to the east, by the Suez Canal and Red Sea ;
Australia, to the east, by the Indian Ocean ; and
the Americas, to the west, by the Atlantic Ocean.
The Cold War similar to a normal war, except the two main enemies ' armys never fought each other.
The term is used to describe the relations between the United States and the Soviet Union during the 45 year period after the end of the World War II.
It was feared that it might end in a nuclear war -- it is good that that never happened.
The Cold War was related many local wars such as the Korean War, Soviet invasions to Hungary and Chechoslovakia, Vietnam War and the Soviet-Afghan War.
Results of the Cold War include -LRB- from some point of view -RRB- the dictatorships in Greece and South America.
The Cuban Missle Crisis was a result of the Cold War and Middle East Crisis has also became much more complicated because of the Cold War.
East Germany, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Hungary, Poland were on the soviet side, and Cuba, North Korea, China, Mongolia and also other countries at different times were friendly to the Soviets.
The cold war was partially due to the contradictory ways of thinking, both in economy and the way of governing.
The United States had adopted capitalism as their economic system while the Soviet Union invented communism, The US was democratic while USSR was practically a dictatorship.
A final phase during the late 1980s happened under the Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, who hoped for a healing between the two states that could fix many world problems.
However, this never happened, because the people who lived in the Soviet Union decided to get rid of Communism, since it had failed them for 80 years and caused more problems and lack of freedom.
By 1990, the Soviet Union broke apart into many smaller countries, like Russia.
The Berlin Wall was then torn down, the nations of Eastern Europe got democracies, and the Cold War was over.
In the late 1980s the Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev wanted to have friendship between the two states, as that could fix many world problems.
However this never happened, because the people who lived in the Soviet Union decided to get rid of Communism, since it had failed them for 80 years and caused more problems and lack of freedom.
By 1990, without communism keeping all the countries who were part of the Soviet Union together, they broke apart into many smaller countries, like Russia, Ukraine and Georgia.
The Cold War was the relationship between the United States and the Soviet Union during the 45-year period following the World War II 's end.
The Cold War was unlike any other war, because the two countries ' armies never directly went to war with each other.
Many people feared that the relations would end in a nuclear war, but that never happened.
The USSR and the United States were allies during World War II only because neither country approved of Nazi Germany 's ideology.
Sometimes the term even excludes Hong Kong and Macau.
By the end the Qing Empire, China became Nationalist China -LRB- the Republic of China -RRB- and it got Taiwan back in 1945.
After the Communists -LRB- the People 's Republic of China -RRB- took over most of China, the Nationalists kept only Taiwan, Kinmen, Matsu, and the Pescadores.
Mongolia became an independent state later.
Since then, Communist China only includes the part on the continent -LRB- mainland -RRB- and some small islands that are very near -LRB- the largest communist island is Hainan -RRB-.
Later Hong Kong and Macau returned to the government of China, but sometimes they are still not thought of as part of Mainland China.
Faulting is when rocks break and move along a line.
The rocks can move because of tension or compression.
A break in rock that rocks move on is called a fault.
The process of forming a fault is called faulting.
The line that rocks move on is called a fault plane.
When it is exposed, it often makes a cliff or steep slope called a fault-scarp.
The line of a fault which appears on land surface is known as a fault line.
These lines are often allow molten rock to come onto the earth surface when there are volcanos nearby.
There are three types of fault.
They are caused by different forces.
Faulting makes two major land shapes - block mountains and rift valleys.
FUCK THE PEOPLE HOW READ THIS
Make Love, Not War
It is the largest named ocean and it covers half the surface of the entire world.
It does this by folding the sea floor in towards the center of the earth - this is called subduction.
This bumping and grinding is difficult so there are many earthquakes and volcanoes when the pressure builds up and is suddenly released when the rocks break.
When an earthquake happens under the sea, the sudden violent jerk causes a tsunami.
This is why tsunamis are more common around the rim of the Pacific than anywhere else.
Many of the Earth 's volcanos are either islands in the Pacific, or are on continents within a few hundred kilometres of the ocean 's edge.
It does this by folding the sea floor in towards the center of the Earth - this is called subduction.
People who want to go to Antarctica mostly go there in an airplane, but people can also take a boat to visit the continent.
Intrusive vulcanicity refers to magma -LRB- molten rock -RRB- being forced into the rocks that make up the Earth 's crust.
These plutons will be exposed at the surface of land when the overlying rocks are removed after a long time of denudation -LRB- laid bare by erosion -RRB-.
The Arctic Ocean is the ocean around the North Pole.
The most northern parts of Eurasia and North America are around the Arctic Ocean.
Thick pack ice and snow cover most of this ocean.
They are sometimes called the Eskimoes -LRB- Eskimoes means more than one Eskimo -RRB-.
Inuit means more than one `` Inuk ''.
The Inuits used to hunt seals.
They also traded fur with the Europeans.
They once lived in houses made of snow called iglooes.
edit Early history
The Inuit are the descendants of what anthropologists call the Thule culture, a nomadic people who emerged from western Alaska around 1000 CE and spread eastwards across the Arctic, displacing the related Dorset culture -LRB- in Inuktitut, the Tuniit -RRB-.
Inuit legends speak of the Tuniit as `` giants '', people who were taller and stronger than the Inuit, but who were easily scared off and retreated from the advancing Inuit.
Researchers believe that the Dorset culture lacked dogs, boats and other technologies that gave the expanding Inuit society a large advantage over them.
By 1300, the Inuit had settled west Greenland, and finally moved into east Greenland over the following century.
The Tuniit survived in Aivilik, Southampton and Coats Islands, until the beginning of the 20th century.
They were known as Sadlermiut -LRB- Sallirmiut in the modern spelling -RRB-.
Their population had been ravaged by diseases brought by contact with Europeans, and the last of them fell in a flu epidemic caught from a passing whaler in 1902.
The area has since been resettled by Inuit.
Genetic research suggests that there was little or no intermarriage between the Tuniit and the Inuit over the thousand years of contact in the Canadian Arctic.
The Inuit were a nomadic culture that circulated almost exclusively north of the timberline, the de facto southern border of Inuit society.
To the south, Native American Indian cultures were well established, and the culture and technology of Inuit society that served them so well in the Arctic was ill-suited to the subarctic, so they did not displace their southern neighbors.
Their relations with southerners were generally hostile, but at other times cordial enough to support trade.
Warfare, in general, was found only among the Inuit groups with sufficient population density, social structure, and political organization.
Inuit who inhabited the Mackenzie Delta area experienced common warfare whereas the Central Arctic Inuit lacked the internal structure to engage in warfare at all.
Instead, the Arctic Inuit experienced common internal conflict, namely homicide which was usually provoked by competition for women or by jealousy.
Among Arctic Inuit groups, there was an unspoken tradition to avenge the death of a family member, which led to endless murder, especially among the Copper Inuit.
With no police, courts, or jails, the individual Copper Inuit depended on ones own definition of justice.
Some of the most respected leaders in the community were murderers.
Social crimes such as dishonesty, laziness, stinginess, and bossiness received more disapproval and condemnation than murder.
Overall, in small Inuit communities, communal disapproval was especially isolating and humiliating.
-LRB- Information from `` Inuit : Glimpses of an Arctic Past '' by Morrison and Germain -RRB-
Usually tensions between Inuit and Indians were common but raids were rare.
One exception is the Copper Inuit who experienced frequent attacks from the Chipewyan and Yellowknives from the south.
Motivated by revenge and glory, the Indians blamed Inuit magic for mysterious deaths or misfortunes within their tribes.
The two races experienced a history of mutual hatred and suspicion.
-LRB- Information from `` Inuit : Glimpses of an Arctic Past '' by Morrison and Germain -RRB-
The first contact with Europeans came from the Vikings, who settled Greenland and explored the eastern Canadian coast.
Norse literature speaks of skrælingar, most likely an undifferentiated label for all the native peoples of the Americas the Norse contacted, Tuniit, Inuit and Beothuks alike.
Archaeological evidence suggests that the Tuniit had abandoned Greenland around 200 CE.
They reoccupied areas in the far north of Greenland sometime around 1000, but the Norse settlements were in the south and southwest of the island.
It is likely that the area of the Norse settlements was unoccupied at the time they arrived.
Sometime in the 13th century, Inuit began arriving from what is now Canada.
Norse accounts are scant, and there is no Inuit oral history discussing contact with the Norse.
However, Norse made items have been found at Inuit campsites in Greenland.
It is unclear whether they are the result of trade or plunder.
One old account speaks of `` small people '' with whom the Norsemen fought.
Ívar Bárðarson 's 14th century account mentions that one of the two Norse settlement areas, the western settlement, had been taken over by the skrælings.
The reason why the Norse settlements failed is unclear, but the last record of them is from 1408, roughly the same period as the earliest Inuit settlements in east Greenland.
After roughly 1350, the climate grew colder during the Little Ice Age and the Inuit were forced to abandon hunting and whaling sites in the high Arctic.
Bowhead whaling disappeared in Canada and Greenland -LRB- but continued in Alaska -RRB- and the Inuit had to subsist on a much poorer diet.
Without whales, they lost access to essential raw materials for tools and architecture that were derived from whaling.
Although the Inuit had always been nomadic, they were forced to move more and more often to maximize their return from hunting.
In Greenland and the Canadian Arctic semi-permanent sod and whalebone dwellings were replaced by what has now become the symbol of the Inuit in many minds : temporary snow houses known as igloos.
The changing climate forced the Inuit to also look south, pressuring them into the marginal niches along the edges of the tree line that Indians had not occupied, or where they were weak enough to coexist with.
It is hard to say with any precision when the Inuit stopped their territorial expansion.
There is evidence that they were still moving into new territory in southern Labrador in the 17th century, when they first began to interact with colonial North American civilisation.
Inuit means more than one, one person is an `` Inuk ''.
Software is short for computer software.
It means the applications and operating systems used with computers.
The term first used in the late 1960s to show the difference from computer hardware, the fixed parts of a machine.
Before compact discs -LRB- CD 's -RRB- or Internet downloads, applications and OS 's came on soft media like magnetic discs and magnetic tape.
The Amazon River
HEADING Types of beds
Since they are not suitable for defense any more, the walls have been destroyed.
Television -LRB- often abbreviated to TV, T.V. ; sometimes called the tube, or telly in the UK -RRB- is a widely used telecommunication system for broadcasting and receiving moving pictures and sound over a distance.
The term may also be used to refer specifically to a television set, programming or television transmission.
The word is derived from mixed Latin and Greek roots, meaning `` far sight '' : Greek `` tele '', far, and Latin vision, sight -LRB- from video, vis - to see -RRB-.
Since it first became commercially available from the late 1930s, the television set has become a common household communications device in homes and institutions, particularly in the first world, as a source of entertainment and news.
Since the 1970s, video recordings on VCR tapes and later, digital playback systems such as DVDs, have enabled the television to be used to view recorded movies and other programs.
A television system may be made up of multiple components, so a screen which lacks an internal tuner to receive the broadcast signals is called a monitor rather than a television.
A television may be built to receive different broadcast or video formats, such as high-definition television -LRB- HDTV -RRB-.
HEADING Technology
HEADING Elements of a television system
, Poland, 1957
power switch \/ volume
brightness
vertical synchro
horizontal synchro
contrast
channel tuning
channel switch
The elements of a simple television system are :
An image source - this may be a camera for live pick-up of images or VTR or a Film Chain-Telecine-flying spot scanner for transmission of films.
A sound source picked up by a microphone
A transmitter, which modulates one or more television signals with both picture and sound information for transmission.
A receiver -LRB- also called a tuner -RRB- which recovers and processes the picture and sound signals from the television broadcast signal.
A display device, which turns the electrical signals into visible light and images
A small amplifier and loudspeaker, which turns electrical signals into sound waves -LRB- speech, music, and other sounds -RRB- to accompany the images.
Practical television systems include equipment for selecting different image sources, mixing images from several sources at once, insertion of pre-recorded video signals, synchronizing signals from many sources, and direct image generation by computer for such purposes as station identification.
Transmission was originally over the air from land-based transmitters.
The quality of reception varies greatly, and this led to the proliferation of large antennas on house roofs for best signal in the 1960s.
In most cities today, cable systems deliver television over metal or optical cables, but for a fee.
It can be delivered by radio from synchronous satellites, which were large for analog, and smaller dishes for digital broadcast, also for a fee, often less than cable systems, which has led to the appearance of small dishes outside of houses and apartments.
Digital systems may be inserted anywhere in the chain to provide better image transmission quality, reduction in transmission bandwidth, special effects, or security of transmission from reception by non-subscribers.
A home today might have the choice of receiving analog or HDTV over the air, analog or digital cable with HDTV from a cable television company over coaxial cable, or even from the phone company over fiber optic lines.
On the road, television can be received by pocket sized televisions, recorded on tape or digital media players, or played back on wireless phones over a high speed network or the internet.
HEADING Display technology
Thanks to the advances in display technology, there are now several kinds of video displays used in modern TV sets :
CRT -LRB- cathode-ray tube -RRB- : The most common screens were direct-view CRTs for up to roughly 100 cm -LRB- 40 inch -RRB- -LRB- in 4:3 ratio -RRB- and 115 cm -LRB- 45 inch -RRB- -LRB- -LRB- in 16:9 ratio -RRB- diagonals.
These are the least expensive, and are a refined technology that can still provide the best overall picture quality value.
As they do not have a fixed native resolution, they are capable of displaying sources with different resolutions at the best possible image quality.
The frame rate or refresh rate of a typical NTSC format CRT TV is 29.97 Hz, and for the PAL format, 25 Hz, both are scanned with two fields per frame in an interlaced fashion.
A typical NTSC broadcast signal 's visible portion has an equivalent resolution of about 640x480 pixels.
It actually could be slightly higher than that, but the vertical blanking interval -LRB- VBI -RRB-, allows other signals to be carried along with the broadcast.
Rear projection -LRB- RPTV -RRB- : Most very large screen TVs -LRB- to 100 inches 254 cm or more -RRB- use projection technology.
Three types of projection systems are used in projection TVs : CRT-based, LCD-based, and DLP -LRB- reflective micromirror chip -RRB- - based.
Projection television has been commercially available since the 1970s, but at that time could not match the image sharpness of the CRT ; current models are vastly improved, and offer a cost-effective large-screen display.
A variation is a video projector, using similar technology, which projects onto a screen.
Flat panel -LRB- LCD or plasma -RRB- : Modern advances have brought flat panels to TV that use active matrix LCD or plasma display technology.
Flat panel LCDs and plasma displays are as little as 25.4 mm -LRB- 1 inch -RRB- thick and can be hung on a wall like a picture or put over a pedestal.
Some models can also be used as computer monitors.
LED technology has become one of the choices for outdoor video and stadium uses, since the advent of bright LEDs and driver circuits.
LEDs enable scalable ultra-large flat panel video displays that other technologies may never be able to match in performance.
Each has its pros and cons.
Flat panel LCD and plasma displays have a wide viewing angle -LRB- around 160 degrees -RRB- so they may best suited for a home theater with a wide seating arrangement.
Rear projection screens do not perform well in daylight or well-lit rooms and so are only suited to darker viewing areas.
HEADING Terminology for televisions
Pixel resolution is the amount of individual points known as pixels on a given screen.
Use of word pixel is fairly new as it only dates to the introduction of the VGA display standard.
Before the 1980s lines of resolution was the standard resolution measurement.
A typical resolution of 720 × 480 means that the television display has 720 pixels across and 480 pixels on the vertical axis.
The higher the resolution on a specified display the sharper the image.
Contrast ratio is a measurement of the range between the brightest and darkest points on the screen.
The higher the contrast ratio, the better looking picture there is in terms of richness, deepness, and shadow detail.
The brightness of a picture measures how vibrant and impacting the colors are.
Measured in cd\/m ^ 2 equivalent to the amount of candles required to power the image.
On the other hand, the so-called brightness and contrast adjustment controls on televisions and monitors are traditionally used to control different aspects of the picture display.
The brightness control shifts the black point, or shadow level, primarily affecting the contrast ratio or gamma of the image, while the contrast control primarily controls the image intensity or brightness.
John Watkinson, Convergence in Broadcast and Communications Media : The Fundamentals of Audio, Video, Data, Focal Press, 2001, ISBN 0240515099
HEADING Transmission band
There are various bands on which televisions operate depending upon the country.
The VHF and UHF signals in bands III to V are generally used.
Lower frequencies do not have enough bandwidth available for television.
Although the BBC initially used Band I VHF at 45 MHz, this frequency is -LRB- in the UK -RRB- no longer in use for this purpose.
Band II is used for FM radio transmissions.
Higher frequencies behave more like light and do not penetrate buildings or travel around obstructions well enough to be used in a conventional broadcast TV system, so they are generally only used for MMDS and satellite television, which uses frequencies from 2 to 12 GHz.
TV systems in most countries relay the video as an AM -LRB- amplitude-modulation -RRB- signal and the sound as a FM -LRB- frequency-modulation -RRB- signal.
An exception is France, where the sound is AM.
HEADING Aspect ratios
Aspect ratio refers to the ratio of the horizontal to vertical measurements of a television 's picture.
Mechanically scanned television as first demonstrated by John Logie Baird in 1926 used a 7:3 vertical aspect ratio, oriented for the head and shoulders of a single person in close-up.
Most of the early electronic TV systems from the mid-1930s onward shared the same aspect ratio of 4:3 which was chosen to match the Academy Ratio used in cinema films at the time.
This ratio was also square enough to be conveniently viewed on round cathode-ray tubes -LRB- CRTs -RRB-, which were all that could be produced given the manufacturing technology of the time.
-LRB- Today 's CRT technology allows the manufacture of much wider tubes, and the flat-screen technologies which are becoming steadily more popular have no technical aspect ratio limitations at all. -RRB-
The BBC 's television service used a more squarish 5:4 ratio from 1936 to 3 April 1950, when it too switched to a 4:3 ratio.
This did not present significant problems, as most sets at the time used round tubes which were easily adjusted to the 4:3 ratio when the transmissions changed.
In the early 1950s, movie studios moved towards widescreen aspect ratios such as CinemaScope in an effort to distance their product from television.
Although this was initially just a gimmick, widescreen is still the format of choice today and square aspect ratio movies are rare.
Some people argue that widescreen is actually a disadvantage when showing objects that are tall instead of panoramic, others say that natural vision is more panoramic than tall, and therefore widescreen is easier on the eye.
Yet the various television systems were not originally designed to be compatible with film at all.
Traditional, narrow-screen movies are projected onto a television camera either so that the top of the screens line up to show facial features, or, for films with subtitles, the bottoms.
What this means is that filmed newspapers or long captions filling the screen for explanation are cut off at each end.
Similarly, while the frame rate of sound films is 24 per second, the screen scanning rate of the NTSC is 29.97 Hz, which requires complex scanning schedule.
That of PAL and SECAM are 50 Hz, which means that films are shortened -LRB- and the sound is offkey -RRB- by scanning each frame twice for 25 per second.
The switch to digital television systems has been used as an opportunity to change the standard television picture format from the old ratio of 4:3 (1.33:1) to an aspect ratio of 16:9 -LRB- approximately 1.78:1 -RRB-.
This enables TV to get closer to the aspect ratio of modern widescreen movies, which range from 1.66:1 through 1.85:1 to 2.35:1.
There are two methods for transporting widescreen content, the most common of which uses what is called anamorphic widescreen format.
This format is very similar to the technique used to fit a widescreen movie frame inside a 1.33:1 35 mm film frame.
The image is compressed horizontally when recorded, then expanded again when played back.
The anamorphic widescreen 16:9 format was first introduced via European PALPlus television broadcasts and then later on `` widescreen '' DVDs ; the ATSC HDTV system uses straight widescreen format, no horizontal compression or expansion is used.
Recently `` widescreen '' has spread from television to computing where both desktop and laptop computers are commonly equipped with widescreen displays.
There are some complaints about distortions of movie picture ratio due to some DVD playback software not taking account of aspect ratios ; but this may subside as the DVD playback software matures.
Furthermore, computer and laptop widescreen displays are in the 16:10 aspect ratio both physically in size and in pixel counts, and not in 16:9 of consumer televisions, leading to further complexity.
This was a result of widescreen computer display engineers ' assumption that people viewing 16:9 content on their computer would prefer that an area of the screen be reserved for playback controls, subtitles or their Taskbar, as opposed to viewing content full-screen.
HEADING Aspect ratio incompatibility
The television industry 's changing of aspect ratios is not without difficulties, and can present a considerable problem.
Displaying a widescreen aspect -LRB- rectangular -RRB- image on a conventional aspect -LRB- square or 4:3 -RRB- display can be shown :
in `` letterbox '' format, with black horizontal bars at the top and bottom
with part of the image being cropped, usually the extreme left and right of the image being cut off -LRB- or in `` pan and scan '', parts selected by an operator or a viewer -RRB-
with the image horizontally compressed
A conventional aspect -LRB- square or 4:3 -RRB- image on a widescreen aspect -LRB- rectangular with longer horizon -RRB- display can be shown :
in `` pillar box '' format, with black vertical bars to the left and right
with upper and lower portions of the image cut off -LRB- or in `` tilt and scan '', parts selected by an operator -RRB-
with the image horizontally distorted
A common compromise is to shoot or create material at an aspect ratio of 14:9, and to lose some image at each side for 4:3 presentation, and some image at top and bottom for 16:9 presentation.
In recent years, the cinematographic process known as Super 35 -LRB- championed by James Cameron -RRB- has been used to film a number of major movies such as Titanic, Legally Blonde, Austin Powers, and Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon -LRB- see also : -RRB-.
This process results in a camera-negative which can then be used to create both wide-screen theatrical prints, and standard `` full screen '' releases for television\/VHS\/DVD which avoid the need for either `` letterboxing '' or the severe loss of information caused by conventional `` pan-and-scan '' cropping.
HEADING Sound
HEADING Data
HEADING The End of Analog Television broadcasting
HEADING NTSC
In North America, the basic signal standards since 1941 have been compatible enough that even the oldest monochrome televisions can still receive color broadcasts in 2007.
However, the United States Congress has passed a law which requires the cessation of all conventional television broadcast signals by February 2009.
If the law is not changed again, then after that date all NTSC standard televisions, with analog-only tuners, will go dark unless fitted with digital ATSC tuners, and the spectrum previously occupied by those analog channels will be auctioned off by the United States ' Federal Communications Commission for other uses.
The analog cut-off date has been changed by Congress in the past.
HEADING UK
All analog television broadcasts are to cease in the UK by 2012.
The process of switching off the analog transmitters will begin in the Whitehaven area of Cumbria in October 2007, with the regions that make up ITV following suit within the next five years thereafter.
The majority of homes will still receive their tv signals via a rooftop aerial by DTT, via Freeview.
It is speculated that 5 million televisions that can not be adapted to receive digital broadcasts will be thrown away during the UK switch to digital.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6753719.stm
HEADING PAL & SECAM
PAL and SECAM are expected to not be broadcast in Europe and Eurasia by the mid-2020s.
PAL-M may have a similar decommissioning timeline.
HEADING Television add-ons
The television was the first consumer mass market for video displays.
Today there are many television add-ons including video game consoles, VCRs, Set-top boxes for Cable, Satellite and DVB-T compliant Digital Television reception, DVD players, or Digital Video Recorders -LRB- including personal video recorders, PVRs -RRB-.
The add-on market continues to grow as new technologies are developed.
Computers, the internet, and even pocket devices such as the iPod provide other ways to consume video content.
HEADING New developments
Ambilight
Broadcast flag
CableCARD
Digital Light Processing -LRB- DLP -RRB-
Digital Rights Management -LRB- DRM -RRB-
Digital television -LRB- DTV -RRB-
Digital Video Recorders -LRB- DVR -RRB-
Direct Broadcast Satellite TV -LRB- DBS -RRB-
DVD and HD DVD standards
Blu-ray Disc
Flicker-free -LRB- 100 Hz or 120 Hz, depending on country -RRB-
High Definition TV -LRB- HDTV -RRB-
High-Definition Multimedia Interface -LRB- HDMI -RRB-
IPTV also know as Internet television
Laser TV display technology
LCD and plasma display flat screen TV
SED display technology
OLED display technology
Pay-per-view
Personal video recorders -LRB- PVR -RRB-
Picture-in-picture -LRB- PiP -RRB-
Pixelplus
Placeshifting
Remote controls
The Slingbox
Timeshifting
Video on-demand -LRB- VOD -RRB-
Ultra High Definition Video -LRB- UHDV -RRB-
Web TV
Roll up Tv
HEADING Exterior designs
In the early days of television, the cabinet was made of wood grain, however, the wood grain was disappearing in the 1980s.
There has been a modern comeback of the woodgrain.
http://www.hannspree-usa.com/jump.jsp?itemID=25&itemType=PRODUCT&path=1%2C2%2C5%2C37&iProductID=25 http://www.retrothing.com/video_tv/index.html
HEADING Geographical usage
Timeline of the introduction of television in countries
HEADING Content
HEADING Programming
Getting TV programming shown to the public can happen in many different ways.
After production the next step is to market and deliver the product to whatever markets are open to using it.
This typically happens on two levels :
Original Run or First Run - a producer creates a program of one or multiple episodes and shows it on a station or network which has either paid for the production itself or to which a license has been granted by the producers to do the same.
Syndication - this is the terminology rather broadly used to describe secondary programming usages -LRB- beyond original run -RRB-.
It includes secondary runs in the country of first issue, but also international usage which may or may not be managed by the originating producer.
In many cases other companies, TV stations or individuals are engaged to do the syndication work, in other words to sell the product into the markets they are allowed to sell into by contract from the copyright holders, in most cases the producers.
In most countries, the first wave occurs primarily on free-to-air -LRB- FTA -RRB- television, while the second wave happens on subscription TV and in other countries.
In the U.S., however, the first wave occurs on the FTA networks and subscription services, and the second wave travels via all means of distribution.
First run programming is increasing on subscription services outside the U.S., but few domestically produced programs are syndicated on domestic FTA elsewhere.
This practice is increasing however, generally on digital-only FTA channels, or with subscriber-only first run material appearing on FTA.
Unlike the U.S., repeat FTA screenings of a FTA network program almost only occur on that network.
Also, Affiliates rarely buy or produce non-network programming that is n't centred around local events.
HEADING Advertising
Since inception in the US in 1940, TV commercials have become one of the most effective, most persuasive, and most popular methods of selling products of many sorts, especially consumer goods.
US advertising rates are determined primarily by Nielsen Ratings.
Depending on the time of the day and popularity of the channel reflects how much a television commercial can cost.
For example, the highly popular American Idol can cost approximately $ 750,000 for a thirty second block of commercial time ; while the same amount of time for the World Cup and the Super Bowl can cost several million dollars.
HEADING TV Genres
Television genres include a broad range of programming types that entertain, inform, and educate viewers.
The most expensive entertainment genres to produce are usually drama and dramatic miniseries.
However, other genres such as historical Western genres may also have high production costs.
Popular entertainment genres include action-oriented shows such as police, crime, detective dramas, horror or thriller shows.
As well, there are also other variants of the drama genre, such as medical dramas and daytime Soap Operas.
Sci-fi -LRB- Science fiction -RRB- shows can fall into either the drama category or the action category, depending on whether they emphasize philosophical questions or explosive space battles.
Comedy is a popular genre which includes sitcoms -LRB- Situation Comedy -RRB-, Britcoms -LRB- situation comedy based in Great Britain -RRB-, and animated shows for the adult demographic such as The Simpsons.
The least expensive forms of entertainment programming are game shows, talk shows, variety shows, and reality TV.
Game shows show contestants answering questions and solving puzzles to win prizes.
Talk shows feature interviews with film, television and music celebrities and public figures.
Variety shows feature a range of musical performers and other entertainers such as comedians and magicians introduced by a host or Master of Ceremonies.
There is some crossover between some talk shows and variety shows, because leading talk shows often feature performances by bands, singers, comedians, and other performers in between the interview segments.
Reality TV shows show `` regular '' people -LRB- e.g., not actors -RRB- who are facing unusual challenges or experiences, ranging from arrest by police officers -LRB- COPS -RRB- to weight loss -LRB- The Biggest Loser -RRB-.
A variant version of reality shows depicts celebrities doing mundane activities such as going about their everyday life -LRB- The Osbournes -RRB- or doing manual labor jobs -LRB- Simple Life -RRB-.
One of the television genres, the children 's and youth genre is defined by the audience, rather than by the content of the programming.
Children 's programming includes animated programs aimed at the child demographic, documentaries for children, and music\/variety shows targeted at kids.
There is overlap between the children 's \/ youth genre and other genres, such as the educational genre.
Television genres that aim to educate and inform viewers include
educational shows, DIY programs on cooking, gardening, or home renovation, history shows, performing arts programs, and documentaries.
Other genres which inform viewers include news, sports, and public affairs programming.
HEADING Social aspects
HEADING Technology trends
In its infancy, television was an ephemeral medium.
Fans of regular shows planned their schedules so that they could be available to watch their shows at their time of broadcast.
The term appointment television was coined by marketers to describe this kind of attachment.
The viewership 's dependence on schedule lessened with the invention of programmable video recorders, such as the Videocassette recorder and the Digital video recorder.
Consumers could watch programs on their own schedule once they were broadcast and recorded.
Television service providers also offer video on demand, a set of programs which could be watched at any time.
Both mobile phone networks and the Internet are capable of carrying video streams.
There is already a fair amount of Internet TV available, either live or as downloadable programs, and video sharing websites have become greatly popular.
The Japanese manufacturer Scalar has developed a very small TV-system attached to the eyeglasses, called `` Teleglass T3-F ''.
Reuters
HEADING Suitability for audience
Almost since the medium 's inception there have been charges that some programming is, in one way or another, inappropriate, offensive or indecent.
Critics such as Jean Kilborne have claimed that television, as well as other mass media images, harm the self image of young girls.
Other commentators such as Sut Jhally make the case that television advertisers in the U.S. deliberately try to equate happiness with the purchasing of products, despite studies which show that happiness for most people comes from non-material realms, such as warm friendships and feelings of connection to one 's community.
Jhally, Sut, Advertising at the Edge of the Apocalypse George Gerbner has presented evidence that the frequent portrayals of crime, especially minority crime, has led to the Mean World Syndrome, the view among frequent viewers of television that crime rates are much higher than the actual data would indicate.
In addition, a lot of television has been charged with presenting propaganda, political or otherwise, and being pitched at a low intellectual level.
HEADING Alleged dangers
See also Media violence research
Paralleling television 's growing primacy in family life and society, an increasingly vocal chorus of legislators, scientists and parents are raising objections to the uncritical acceptance of the medium.
For example, the Swedish government imposed a total ban on advertising to children under twelve in 1991 -LRB- see advertising -RRB-.
Fifty years of research on the impact of television on children 's emotional and social development demonstrate that there are clear connections between watching violence on television and engaging in aggressive or violent behavior.
In a recent study published in the journal Media Psychology, the research team demonstrated that the brain activation patterns of children viewing violence show that children are aroused by the violence -LRB- increased heart rates -RRB-, demonstrate fear -LRB- activation of the amygdala-the fight or flight sensor in the brain -RRB- in response to the video violence, and store the observed violence in an area of the brain -LRB- the posterior cingulate -RRB- that is reserved for long-term memory of traumatic events.
A 2002 article in Scientific American suggested that compulsive television watching, television addiction, was no different from any other addiction, a finding backed up by reports of withdrawal symptoms among families forced by circumstance to cease watching.
A longitudinal study in New Zealand involving 1000 people -LRB- from childhood to 26 years of age -RRB- demonstrated that `` television viewing in childhood and adolescence is associated with poor educational achievement by 12 years of age ''.
In other words, the more the child watched television, the less likely he or she was to finish school and enroll in a university.
A study published in the Journal of Sexuality Research and Social Policy concluded that parental television involvement was associated with greater body satisfaction among adolescent girls, less sexual experience amongst both male and female adolescents, and that parental television involvement may influence self-esteem and body image, in part by increasing parent-child closeness.
Numerous studies have been done on the relationship between TV viewing and school grades.
In Iceland, television broadcasting hours were restricted until 1984, with no television programs being broadcast on Thursday, or during the whole of July.
One of the reasons people campaign against TV is because of the activities people are not doing during the time that they watch it.
Many campaigners believe that using up 3.5 hours a day on TV -LRB- UK and American average -RRB- is not worthwhile.
While only 3% of American minors own personal TV 's, it is estimated that the daily viewing average among 12-17 yr olds exceeds 4 hours, with this figure being dramatically higher in parts of the United States.
HEADING Propaganda delivery
Audiovisual media, including television, is the second most effective means of communication available to the psychological operator.
Effectiveness is based on seeing and hearing the persuasive message.
These media are an excellent means of transmitting persuasive messages and eliciting a high degree of recall.
`` Psychological Operations Field Manual No.33-1 '' published in August 1979 by Department of the Army Headquarters in Washington DC ; and `` Psychological Operations -LRB- PSYOP -RRB- Media Subcourse PO-0816 '' by The Army Institute for Professional Development, published in 1983
Propaganda can exist on news, current affairs or talk show segments, as advertising or public-service announce `` spots '' or as long-running advertorialshttp : \/ \/ en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Propaganda#Techniques_of_propaganda_transmission.
HEADING Educational advantages
Despite this research, many media scholars today dismiss such studies as flawed.
For one example of this school of thought, see David Gauntlett 's article `` Ten Things Wrong With the Media ` Effects ' Model. ''
Dimitri Christakis cites studies in which those who watched `` Sesame Street '' and other educational programs as preschoolers had higher grades, were reading more books, placed more value on achievement and were more creative.
Similar, while those exposed to negative role models suffered, those exposed to positive models behaved better.
February 22, 2007 Smarter kids through television : debunking myths old and new By Dimitri Christakis Special to The Washington Post Modern children can be exposed to much more history, news and science than previous generations when information was only available from newspapers and books.
HEADING Environmental aspects = =
With high lead content in CRTs, and the rapid diffusion of new, flat-panel display technologies, some of which -LRB- LCDs -RRB- use lamps containing mercury, there is growing concern about electronic waste from discarded televisions.
Related occupational health concerns exist, as well, for disassemblers removing copper wiring and other materials from CRTs.
Further environmental concerns related to television design and use relate to the devices ' increasing electrical energy requirements.
Energy Saving Trust, The Rise of the Machines : A Review of Energy Using Products in the Home from the 1970s to Today, London, July 3, 2006
HEADING Further reading
Pierre Bourdieu, On Television, The New Press, 2001.
Brooks, Tim and March, Earle, The Complete Guide to Prime Time Network and Cable TV Shows, Ballantine, Eighth Edition, 2002.
Jacques Derrida, Bernard Stiegler, Echographies of Television, Polity Press, 2002.
Jerry Mander, Four Arguments for the Elimination of Television, Perennial, 1978.
Jerry Mander, In the Absence of the Sacred, Sierra Club Books, 1992, ISBN 0-87156-509-9.
Makes the case that television programming transmitted by communications satellites is destroying unique local cultures all over the world
Neil Postman, Amusing Ourselves to Death : Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business.
Penguin USA, 1985.
ISBN 0-670-80454-1
Beretta E. Smith-Shomade, Shaded Lives : African-American Women and Television, Rutgers University Press, 2002.
Dr. Alan.
Taylor, We, the media, Pedagogic Intrusions into US Film and Television News... ISBN 3631518528 Peter, Lang, Academic Book Publishers, 2005, pp.
David E. Fisher and Marshall J. Fisher, Tube : the Invention of Television, Counterpoint, Washington, D.C., USA, (1996) ISBN 1-887178-17-1
Albert Abramson, The History of Television, 1942 to 2000, McFarland, Jefferson, NC, USA, and London (2003) ISBN 0-7864-1220-8
Evan I. Schwartz, The Last Lone Inventor : A Tale of Genius, Deceit, and the Birth of Television
HEADING References
See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Footnotes for a
discussion of different citation methods and how to generate
footnotes using the, and tags
----------------------------------------------------------- -- -RRB-
HEADING Related websites
Early Television Foundation and Museum
Television 's History -- The First 75 Years
The Encyclopedia of Television at the Museum of Broadcast Communications
MZTV Museum of Television Some of the rarest sets in America
Other TVs can take up a whole wall in a house, and may sit on the floor, or be just a large flat screen that can be put on the wall.
Beer is a drink of alcohol.
It is made with water, hops, barley -LRB- types of cereal grains -RRB-, and yeast -LRB- a germ that produces alcohol -RRB-.
It is not known exactly how this happened, but it could be that a piece of bread or grain became wet, and a short time later, it began to ferment and made a pulp that causes drunkenness.
Beer is made when the yeast ` eats ' the sugar, and as it does, it lets out alcohol and carbon dioxide.
A description of the making of beer on this ancient engraving in the Sumerian language is the earliest account of what is easily recognized as barley, followed by a pictograph of bread being baked, crumbled into water to form a mash, and then made into a drink, that is recorded as having made people feel ''... wonderful and blissful ''.
It could even be possible that bread was first baked to be a way to make beer that is easy to carry around.
The Sumerians are thought to be the first people to brew beer.
They had found a `` divine drink '' -- they felt it was a gift from the gods.
Diffeent beers can has different natures, depending on the ingredients used ; for example, an ale has the same amount of hops and malt with sugar, and is fermented from the top -LRB- using a top settling yeast -RRB-.
This tends to give the beer a different flavor, and also makes it a little more alcoholic.
Another type is a lager, that uses fewer hops and more sugar, with a bottom fermenting yeast, leading to a crisper and cleaner taste.
In brewing beer, the amount of alcohol can be made more or less quite easily.
The Belgian types of beer are made by adding more sugar.
Today, there are beers with between 2% and about 16% of alcohol -LRB- about the same alcohol content as wine -RRB-.
Some beer labels say there is no alcohol in them -LRB- because it was taken out afterwards -RRB-.
HEADING The history of beer
Internet protocol -LRB- IP -RRB- defines how the communication from one address to another works.
Some computers have the same IP address for a very long time.
These IP addresses are called `` static IP addresses ''.
Some computers change their IP from time to time.
These IP addresses are called `` dynamic IP addresses ''.
An IP address is a number given to each computer on the internet.
It is like a postal address or phone number, but for the computer.
Internet protocol -LRB- IP -RRB- defines how communication from one address to another work.
Eurasia is a continental land area in the northern hemisphere of the Earth You get Eurasia by adding Europe to Asia.
Some geographers say it all just one continent, because unlike the Americas or Africa, Europe and Asia are separated not by a sea or a thin strip of land -LRB- called an isthmus -RRB-, but by a boundary that has been defined by centuries of tradition.
-- -RRB-
The North Pole is the point that is furthest north on the planet Earth.
It is the point on which axis of Earth turns.
It is in the Arctic Ocean and it 's cold there because the sun does n't shine there for about half a year.
The ocean around the pole is always very cold and it is covered by a thick sheet of ice.
The bears, in a general way, usually are attack anything near them to protect themselves and their cubs.
Santa Clause lives in the north pole.
Contrary to popular belief, polar bears do not eat penguins, who live at the south pole.
Oceania is a name used in geography for Australia, New Zealand, New Guinea, and several other island nations in the surrounding area.
Some people call this part of the world Australasia instead.
Sometimes the name Oceania includes the Polynesian and Melanesian islands too.
The Southern Ocean is a rather new term in geography.
It means the waters of the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans around the continent of Antarctica out to sixty degrees south latitude.
Some people call this ocean the Antarctic Ocean.
Pop music is short for Popular music.
Usually, this means music that is commercially successful because it sells the most.
Pop music came from the Rock and Roll movement of the early 1950s, when record companies saw a commercial opportunity.
Teenagers were the perfect people to sell music to, and the perfect way to make money.
Pop music usually follows some type of musical trend.
Any style of music can `` become '' pop music, if given enough time.
Acid and Folk Rock were generally popular in the late 1960s and early 1970s ; Disco in the late 1970s ; New Wave in the 1980s ; and Grunge in the 1990s.
Creative effort usually starts music trends, then the popularity of that trend causes it to `` turn pop ''.
Sometimes, the artists are said to have `` sold out ''.
Some artists are Pop from the start.
Football is very popular in some parts of the world, for example in Brazil.
In other contries, for example India and Canada, other sports are more popular.
Because we just need a ball for play football, all kinds of people can play it.
In many countries the best football players are very famous and earn much money.
Players may not hold each other or stop other players from getting to the ball -LRB- obstruction -RRB-.
Players who get shown a red card get sent off the pitch and can not finish playing the game.
If a player puts the ball out of play at the other end of the pitch, the other team kicks the ball back into play from directly in front of the goal -LRB- a goal kick -RRB- ;
The offside rule stops a player from kicking the ball to a player on the same team who has less than two opposition players between him and their goal -LRB- one of these players is usually the goalkeeper -RRB-.
It is played by both males and females, but more commonly by males.
Players who get shown a red card get sent off the field and can not finish playing the game.
If a player puts the ball out of play at the side of the field, the other team gets to throw the ball back into play -LRB- a throw in -RRB-.
If a player puts the ball out of play at their end of the field, the other team kicks the ball back into play from the corner -LRB- a corner kick -RRB- ;
If a player puts the ball out of play at the other end of the field, the other team kicks the ball back into play from directly in front of the goal -LRB- a goal kick -RRB- ;
The offside rule stops a player from kicking the ball to a player on the same team who has less than two opposition players between him and their goal -LRB- if there is an opposition player, it is usually the goalkeeper -RRB-.
Spamming is when a person sends `` unsolicited commercial email '' -LRB- UCE -RRB-.
Usually, the bottom of the email tells a person that they can click an `` unsubscribe '' or `` remove me '' link to stop getting the emails.
Spamming is named after Spam & reg ;, a canned meat product from the Hormel company.
The same thing happens if the person replies to a spam message, which also tells the spammer the message has been read.
This is another way to tell the spammer that the message has been read, which causes them to be sent even more spam email.
Good ways to avoid spam are :
Only give your email address to trusted friends.
Do n't open email messages from people you do n't know.
If you do open a spam message, do n't reply to it, and do n't click on any links in it.
Do n't ever buy anything from a spammer, the only reason spam exists it that it gets people to buy something.
If you do not wish to get more of these messages
from us click here to stop getting them.
The act of Spamming is when someone sends someone else an unwanted email '' to try to get them to buy something or do something else that will cause gain for the sender.
This is only to be considered spamming if the person who gets the email does not want it.
The emails sent when someone is spamming is called spam.
The person who sent that email is called a spammer.
Spam emails are often sent to many people at once trying to get them to buy a product or sign up for a service.
One of the reasons there is so much spam emails around is that it costs almost nothing to send millions of messages at once.
Spam messages can easily be sent, sometimes even by a special computer program.
The hardest part about spamming is to get the email addresses to send the spam to.
Sometimes the spammers do this by searching for emails on the internet, or by buying emails from people who know a lot of them -LRB- for example, someone who runs a site that makes users tell them their email address to signup will have a lot of email addresses to sell to spammers -RRB-.
One part of getting email addresses is to find addresses that are still in use.
Then the spammers put that person on a list of people who actually read spam messages, and they may even sell that list to other spammers, who may sell it to other spammers and so on.
The same thing happens if the person sends another email back to the spammer -LRB- called `` replying '' -RRB-, which also tells the spammer the message has been read.
When the email is opened, a request will be sent to the server that has that picture to get the image.
If they get this request, then they know that you read their email, which could cause you to recieve even more spam email.
Do n't open email messages that are from people you do n't know if you do n't know why the email was sent to you.
The act of Spamming is when someone sends someone else an unwanted email to try to get them to buy something or do something else that will cause gain for the sender.
An earthquake is an event in which the ground moves.
Earthquakes commonly last for a few seconds.
There are big earthquakes and small earthquakes.
Big earthquakes can damage buildings and hurt people.
When the earth moves in an earthquake, it can cause waves in the ocean.
A big wave in the ocean caused by an earthquake is called a '' tsunami -RRB- ''.
Another name for a tsunami is a tidal wave, although this name is out of date.
A tsunami can also hurt people and damage buildings.
HEADING Measuring earthquakes
The size of an earthquake can be measured.
A number is given to an earthquake that shows the size of the earthquake.
Methods for turning the size of an earthquake into a number include the Richter scale and the Modified Mercalli scale.
HEADING Cause of earthquakes
The surface of the earth is divided into pieces called `` tectonic plates ''.
These plates move.
When the plates rub against each other, they do not move smoothly.
When the plates do not move smoothly, earthquakes result.
Some parts of the world get more earthquakes than other parts.
The parts of the earth that get most earthquakes are near the edges of these plates.
Some countries, such as Japan and California, are in areas with many earthquakes.
In these places it is good to make houses and other buildings so they will not break when there is an earthquake.
This is called `` earthquake-proofing ''.
redirect color
The most common colors are : Black, white, pink, gray -LRB- gray -RRB-, yellow, red, purple, blue and green
It is caused by not eating enough Vitamin C.
People who have scurvy get spots on their skin, especially the legs.
Their teeth may become loose and fall out.
They may bleed from the mouth, nose, and gums -LRB- mucous membranes -RRB-.
They will not be able to move easily, because their joints hurt.
Historically, sailors used to get scurvy because fresh fruit could not be kept for as long as they were at sea.
Today it is uncommon in the wealthy countries.
Not wanting to eat -LRB- loss of appetite -RRB-
Sadness -LRB- slight depression -RRB-
Losing weight or not gaining weight
Loose feces -LRB- diarrhea -RRB-
Breathing fast -LRB- tachypnea -RRB-
High body temperature -LRB- fever -RRB-
Anger -LRB- irritability -RRB-
Pain in the legs -LRB- and tenderness -RRB-
Hard to move -LRB- pseudoparalysis -RRB-
Not eating enough Vitamin C -LRB- Inadequate intake -RRB-
Unhealthy diets -LRB- eating the wrong kinds of foods -RRB-
Vitamin C administered by mouth or by needle -LRB- injection, also known as a shot -RRB-.
The injection almost always cures scurvy in babies.
Drinking orange juice is another treatment and works in babies.
Before Vitamin C was discovered this was the only treatment.
Babies start eating again after one or two days of help.
The symptoms get better within seven days.
Eating vitamin C prevents scurvy.
The following are the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Academy of Sciences, National Research Council 's recommended amounts of vitamin C to eat every day :
Citrus fruits -LRB- for example : oranges, limes, grapefruits -RRB-
But these four are the basic types.
Education is the process of gathering or recieving knowledge or skills -LRB- or simply learning -RRB-, and giving knowledge or wisdom is the job of an educator.
There are many different kinds of knowledge and ways to get it.
For example, a mother may teach a daughter how to make a meal, or a person may go to school to learn a trade.
Or you could get an education if you read the whole encyclopedia.
Usually, though, ` education ' is in reference to what you learn at a school.
Education is the process of learning skills and knowledge.
Some would say it also includes learning new attitudes or values.
Teaching knowledge or wisdom, helping students to learn, is the job of an educator, that is, an instructor, teacher, or tutor.
There are many different kinds of education.
There is formal education, usually in school, where a person may learn basic, academic, or trade skills.
Formal education begins in elementary school and continues through secondary school.
There is post-secondary education -LRB- or higher education, usually at a college or university. -RRB-
There is nonformal education, sometimes called adult basic education, adult literacy education or school equivalency preparation.
In nonformal education an adult or out-of-school youth may learn literacy or other basic skills or livelihood skills.
Nonformal education takes place in small classes, tutorials or through self-instruction.
There is also informal education, for example, a parent teaching a child how to make a meal.
You could also get an education informally, on your own, if you read the whole encyclopedia, or if you read many books from a library.
Through education, the knowledge of a society, country, and of the world is passed on from generation to generation.
In democracies, through education children and adults are supposed to learn how to be active and effective citizens.
In most rich countries, every child has to go to school.
In a few cases children can be `` home-schooled '' by their parents, but this often must be approved by a school system.
If parents want their children to receive a private education they must pay for it.
In some poorer countries, some children can not go to school because their families do not have enough money or because the children have to work.
Education is the process of teaching and earning kills and brain power.
Teaching knowledge, seamanship, or fine motor skills, helping underlings to learn, is the job of economic anaylsts, that is, an instructor, bagel, or person who tutors others in various subjects such as math, science, massage therapy, pirating, and clown school.
There are many different kinds of jelly fish.
There is informal education, usually in shcool, where a person may learn basic, or trade skillz.
Formal education begins in elementary school and continues through the next school.
There is post-secondary education -LRB- or higher wisdom, usually at a college or university. -RRB-
There is nonformal education, sometimes called adult sick education, adult illiteracy education or school preparation.
Nonformal education takes place in huge classes, tutorialsness or through self-pleasure.
There is also informal education, for example, a parent teaching a child how to make a seal.
Someone could also get an education informally on one 's own, by reading many hooks from a library.
Education also means helping people to learn how to do stuff and helping them to learn how to sink, make decisions and find out answers through interrogation.
In most rich countries, every child has to go to school, by force if necessary.
In a few cases, children can be `` home-schooled '' by their underlings, but this often must be approved by a economic analyst.
Public schools provide a tree education through the government.
Parents are free to let their kids receive a private lesson, but they must pay for it with human offerings.
In some poorer places, some childrengo to school, because their families do not have enough money, or because the children have to dance at the ball.
Creating a place for learning is the job of an educator, an instructor, teacher, or tutor.
In a few cases, children can be `` home-schooled '' by their parents, but this often must be approved by a school system.
It is also important for educators to teach ways to find and use information.
Nonformal education can be in small classes or through self study.
To teach is to help students to learn new knowledge or skills.
HEADING Bodies of water
Not a lot of people were able to find jobs.
The economy was in need of help.
Trajan went back to Rome with 165 tons of gold and 330 tons of silver after his.
The Romans had a lot of people living in the colony of Roman Dacia.
They spoke Vulgar Latin.
They began to write the local languages using the Latin alphabet.
This is called romanization.
In the 3rd century, the province was attacked by several groups of nomadic people, including the Goths.
They made the Roman Empire leave Dacia near 271 AD.
The lowest temperature ever in Romania was -37.3 F, at Bra ov in 1944.
The highest temperature ever recorded in Romania was 112 F, near Calafat in the 1950s.
They made the Roman Empire leave Dacia about 271 AD.
HEADING Dark Ages
From 271 to 275 AD, the Goths took over the abandoned Roman province.
HEADING Middle Ages
Wallachia has been on the border of the Ottoman Empire since the 14th century.
While he was the leader of his people, he had an agreement with the Ottoman Empire to stay independent.
The Gepids, Avars, with the Slavic people, were in control of Transylvania through the 8th century.
In the 8th century, however, the country was by Bulgarians.
It was made part of the First Bulgarian Empire, which ended Romania 's Dark Ages.
In 1310, now called the High Middle Ages, Basarab I started the Romanian principality of Wallachia.
Moldavia was begun by Drago around 1352.
During the Middle Ages, Romanians were living in 3 different areas :
Wallachia -LRB- Romanian : ara Româneasc -- `` Romanian Land '' -RRB-
Moldavia -LRB- Romanian : Moldova -RRB-
Transylvania.
This lasted until 1711.
Wallachia had been on the border of the Ottoman Empire since the 14th century.
As the Ottoman Empire 's influence grew, it gradually fell under the suzerainty -LRB- control -RRB- of the Ottoman Empire in the 15th century.
The best known ruler of this period was Vlad III the Impaler, also known as Vlad Dracula, or,, Prince of Wallachia, during the years of 1448, 1456 -- 62, and 1476.
Tepes : The Historical Dracula While he was the leader of his people, he had an agreement with the Ottoman Empire to stay independent.
Moldavia was at its greatest when Stephen the Great was ruling between 1457 and 1504.
He was a very good leader of the military.
He won 47 battles, and lost only 2 -RRB-.
After Stephen the Great 's death, Moldavia came under the suzerainty of the Ottoman Empire during the 16th century.
The 1848 Revolution did not, and the Great Powers did not like the idea of Romania becoming an nation.
When the 1878 Treaty of Berlin, was signed, the Great Powers made Romania an independent state.
In returm they had to give Russia three of their southern districts of of Bessarabia.
The people who voted in 1859 in Moldavia and Wallachia picked the same person & ndash ; Alexandru Ioan Cuza & ndash ; to be the prince in those areas.
Prince Karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen became the new leader, and was later called Prince Carol of Romania.
In returm they had to give Russia 3 of their southern districts of of Bessarabia.
In 1881, the principality became a kingdom, with Prince Carol ruling as King Carol I.
Much of the Romanian army were either captured or killed over 4 months.
Romania 's economy is healthy.
In 1989, after the Communists left Romania, the economy was in very bad shape.
Not many people were able to find jobs.
The bad economy lasted for about 10 years.
In 2000, Romania 's leaders finally started making changes to the economy and the system.
Romania has its own culture because of where it is found.
When taken from the Romanian language, România Mare means Great Romania.
The Union was created for many economic and political reasons ; some of continue to cause debate within the Union 's member countries.
Apart from two -LRB- Denmark and the United Kingdom -RRB-, the remaining countries have agreed to join the euro when their economies are strong enough.
The Union was created for many economic and political reasons ; some of these reasons still cause debate in some of the Union 's member countries.
The Council of the European Union is the main decision-making institution.
and discuss issues that are important to them.
For example, from January 2007 until July 2007, Germany held the presidency.
The six months before that, Finland held the presidency.
Member countries with a large population -LRB- Germany, France, United Kingdom, etc. -RRB- have more votes than countries with small populations -LRB- Luxembourg, Malta, etc. -RRB- but a decision can not be made if enough countries vote against the decision.
Twice a year, the heads of government -LRB- Prime Ministers -RRB- and\/or the heads of state -LRB- Presidents -RRB- meet to talk about the main issues and make decisions on different issues.
This meeting is different and not as formal.
It is known as a European Council.
The Council of the European Union is the main decision-making group.
The European Commission runs the day to day running of the EU and writes laws, like a government.
Many people think he was the smartest scientist of the 20th century.
In slang, we sometimes call a very smart person an ` einstein. '
Albert Einstein -LRB- March 14, 1879 - April 18, 1955 -RRB- was a German physicist and a scientist.
Einstein is very famous for his theories about light, matter, gravity, space, and time, which helped scientists to understand these things much better than they had before.
He was very interested in trying to understand how a force that could not be seen could make the needle move and became interested in studying science and mathematics.
HEADING Beliefs
The information received by several radio telescopes in different places can be combined.
This gives similar results to having a single dish as big as the distance between the telescopes, so even very faint signals can be received.
Scientists are also trying to do this with ordinary telescopes.
Lots of important people use olive branches around text to give it artistic credit -LRB- a similar effect is achieved with wheat -RRB-.
HEADING Color
The machine was made in Korea in 1232 and used metal letters.
But the original printing machine, which used wooden letters, was made in China almost 1500 years ago.
The people of Switzerland do not speak the same German as people in Germany.
People know that Toronto has a lot of neighborhoods that are distinctive -LRB- very different from each other -RRB-.
A lot of Torontonians -LRB- people who live in Toronto -RRB- and visitors think the distinctive neighborhoods make Toronto interesting.
This makes it an interesting place to see how different types of people live, to hear their languages, and to try different kinds of food.
101 : one hundred one -LRB- or one hundred and one -RRB-
102 : one hundred two -LRB- or one hundred and two -RRB-
HEADING See also
Names for large numbers
Names for small numbers
The American Constitution prohibits printing paper money without regard to any stockpile of gold or silver.
However, the government of the United States is doing that.
Then it sells that paper money to a cartel of private banks for the cost of the ink and paper.
Then the government borrows back that paper money from that cartel with owing them the face amount printed on the paper money plus an interest rate determined by the cartel.
Then the government taxes the labor of citizens to pay the interest on that `` debt, '' and the Congress has agreed with this.
The Federal Reserve -LRB- sometimes called ` the Fed ' -RRB- gives out dollars to Americans.
It the only private, for-profit company in the USA that does not have to pay federal -LRB- national -RRB- and state taxes.
You are stupid ?
You can find dollar bills that are worth 1, 5, 10, 20, 50, and 100 dollars.
There are half-dollar coins, which are worth 50 cents.
Quarters are worth 25 cents, dimes are worth ten cents, nickels are worth five cents, and pennies are worth one cent.
Vending machines often give dollar coins as change, since it is easier for the machines to give out coins than paper money.
Many people today know little about the history of the American Dollar, which is actually named the `` Federal Reserve Note ''.
The United States Constitution does n't allow the printing of paper money unless there is enough gold and silver to `` back up '' the paper money.
This means the paper money could be traded for gold or silver.
The government of the United States stopped using this `` gold standard '' in 1971, which means it no longer needed to have enough gold to trade for paper money.
The Federal Reserve lets banks borrow money.
The banks then let people and and companies borrow the money.
The real value of the dollar -- or how much it is worth -- is determined as dollars are exchanged -LRB- bought, sold, and traded -RRB- with other currencies.
If too many dollars enter into circulation, they are worth less when compared against other currencies.
When writing, the symbol for the American dollar is the dollar sign -LRB- $ -RRB-.
Dollars can also be labeled as USD -LRB- U.S. Dollar -RRB-.
There are also paper bills that are worth 1, 5, 10, 20, 50, and 100 dollars.
Some of them are silver and some of them are gold-colored.
But most of the time people use paper dollars.
There are 100 cents in one American dollar.
The cent or `` penny '' is the smallest or least valuable coin used in the U.S. There are half-dollar coins, which are worth 50 cents.
Quarters are worth 25 cents, dimes are worth ten cents, nickels are worth five cents, and pennies are worth one cent.
All coins and paper bills have the faces of famous Americanson the front side.
The paper `` dollar bill '' is actually called a `` Federal Reserve Note ''.
`` Federal '' refers to the U.S. government.
The United States Constitution, the main laws in the country, first said that the government must hold enough gold to redeem -LRB- trade for -RRB- the paper money it printed.
This means that, if needed, paper money could be traded to the government for gold.
The government of the United States stopped using this `` gold standard '' in 1971, which means it no longer needs to have enough gold to trade for paper money.
The Federal Reserve is the federal government 's bank.
It lets other banks borrow money.
The banks then let people and companies borrow the money from them.
The banks then pay interest at a rate called the Federal Funds Rate.
This percentage is set by the Federal Reserve Board and is changed based on economic conditions in the country.
All coins and paper bills have the faces of famous Americans on the front side.
The United States dollar or the American dollar is the official currency, or money, of the United States of America.
A cat is an animal.
Sometimes cats scratch and sometimes they bite.
But they are usually fun to play with.
Lions, tigers, panthers, leopards, jaguars, cougars, and cheetahs are large wild cats.
Cats are carnivorous mammals.
Domestic cats are pets, they live in houses with humans and do not know how to live in nature, for example in a forest.
Many domestic cats eat food made in factories, but they can hunt animals similar to mice, birds, and insects.
Sometimes, people use the word `` cat '' to refer to other felines : the big cats -LRB- lion, tiger, and others -RRB- and the wild cats -LRB- lynxes, pumas, and others -RRB-.
The cats and other felines can not taste sweet foods -LRB- with sugar -RRB- because they are not adapted to them.
Cat is also the name of a Unix\/Linux command.
Computer Hope - more info about the Unix\/Linux command.
Cats have been tamed -LRB- kept as pets -RRB- for over 3000 years, and they are popular pets.
Cats were first tamed because they eat mice, but later they were tamed because they are friendly and good companions.
These big cats are n't tamed and can be very dangerous.
There are many different breeds of tabby cats.
These kinds are called `` feral cats ''.
Cats are quiet and well-behaved animals, so they are popular pets.
Cats are also very clean animals.
They lick their many times a day, and they like clean places.
They also sleep a lot, sometimes up to 20 hours a day.
Cats only mate when the queen is `` in heat ''.
Heat periods occur about every two weeks and last 4 to 6 days.
Mating in cats is a spectacular event.
Several toms may be attracted to a queen in heat.
This is because a male cat 's penis has a band of about 120-150 backwards-pointing spines, which are about one millimeter long ; upon withdrawal of the penis, the spines rake the walls of the female 's vagina, which is a triggerTrigger : in the sense of an event which starts other events.
for ovulation.
Because ovulation is not always triggered, females may not get pregnant by the first tom which mates with them.
The cycle ceases when the queen is pregnant.
The size of a litter is usually three to five kittens.
Females can have two to three litters per year, so might produce up to 150 kittens in their breeding life of about ten years.
Very soon the kits will urinate anywhere they please unless trained by humans.
Very soon, the kits will urinate anywhere they please unless one trains them.
Cats are active carnivoreshttp : \/ \/ www.felinefuture.com \/, meaning they hunt live prey.
Cats eat a wide variety of prey, including insects, and seem especially to like house flies and bluebottles.
Their main method of hunting is stalk and pounce.
While dogs have great stamina and will chase prey over long distances, cats are extremely fast, but only over short distances.
Cats are quiet and well-behaved animals, making them popular pets.
Young kittens are playful.
They can easily entertain themselves with a variety of store-bought or homemade toys.
House cats have also been known to teach themselves to use doorknobs and toilet handles.
These methods of communication are very important.
They are used between mother and kittens ; between male and female cats ; and between cats and other species, such as dogs.
She gives good warning with a frightening display, hissing furiously, showing her claws, arching her back, and making her hair stand on end.
Pregnant queens deliver their litters by themselves, being guided by instinct.
The queen finds the safest place she can.
Then she will clean it thoroughly, with her tongue, if necessary.
Here she will quietly give birth.
-LRB- In the wild, leaving a scent is risking a dangerous encounter with other animals. -RRB-
The kits are born blind, with no hair, and closed eyes.
After a week or so, their eyes open.
The queen, meanwhile, has left the nest from time to time, to hunt, feed, and also to urinate and defecate.
A mechanical engineer would design things that move and are not considered an airplane or ship.
An electrical engineer would design or build an electronic device, like televisions and radios.
A mechanical engineer would design machines or things that move, like sportscars.
A software engineer would design and write software for computers, like Microsoft Windows.
Mechanical engineers help design electricity generating stations, oil refineries, and factories using mechanical components like boilers, turbines, pumps, fans, pipes, and valves.
Civil engineers work on roads, bridges, buildings and other public structures.
Chemical engineers use chemicals to make products like drugs and medicines or fertilizers for crops.
Electrical engineers work with electricity, from small things like radios and computers to large things like the wires that carry electricity across the country.
A Master 's Degree is an advanced degree, usually requiring two more years of study after the Bachelors.
Engineering is the use of science and mathematics to design or make.
They learn engineering by studying at a university or technical school.
There are different types of engineers that design everything from computers and buildings to watches and websites.
The best way to become an engineer in France is to take the CPGE -LRB- Classe Preparatoire pour les Grandes Ecoles is the French class for engineer 's school -RRB- for two years and then study for three years in an `` Ecole d'Ing énieur '' -LRB- Engineer 's school -RRB-.
You can also study in an IUT -LRB- Institut universitaire technologique -RRB- for three years, and then study three years in an `` Ecole d'Ing énieur ''.
Communication is the process of exchanging ideas and information.
The most common forms of communications include :
Talking\/Listening ;
Reading\/Writing ;
Body gestures ;
Showing your feelings.
Talking to friends, reading a book, or hugging your loved one are simple forms of communication.
Telephones -LRB- phone calls -RRB-, computers -LRB- internet and email -RRB-, radio and television are some examples of communicating using technology.
Natural communication is when any type of animal communicates with each other.
They tell each other when they are ready to mate, where they are -LRB- if they are lost -RRB-, and when it 's time to migrate to a warmer climate.
They can tell the difference when a male or female is looking for a mate, when there is danger, and when a mother is calling to her baby.
Animals do not just call to each other, they also leave scent marks around their territory to tell other animals that it 's theirs.
The leader of the group usually leaves his\/her scent marks to say that they are the leader.
hello sunshine the world says hello !
Communication can be -LRB- a word -RRB- or non-spoken -LRB- a smile -RRB-.
A Miracle could mean one of three things :
English has continued to take new words from other languages, for example Chinese, Hindi, Japanese, and Spanish.
The word `` English '' comes from the name of the Angles.
English has many words from French because of William the Conqueror, a French king who conquered England in 1066 AD -LRB- conquer = have a war and win -RRB-.
English has continued to take new words from other languages, for example mainly from French -LRB- around 30% to 40% of its words -RRB-, but also Chinese, Hindi and Urdu, Japanese, Spanish and Portuguese.
Many people think that he is the greatest English writer of all time and one of the greatest in the world.
He wrote plays about history and tragedy.
He also wrote comedies.
Turkey -LRB- Turkish : Türkiye -RRB- is a country at the meeting point of Europe and Asia.
The area of modern Turkey is about 780,000 square kilometres.
Turkey has 81 provinces.
The economic and industrial center is Istanbul, on the Bosphorus straits, and was in the past known as Constantinople.
Turkey was founded in 1923 by Atatürk as the Republic of Turkey after the war of independence.
Before that, Turkey was part of the Ottoman Empire.
Ataturk introduced many changes that made Turkey more modern and western.
Because of its important location, throughout history it has been the home of many civilisatons, including the Hittites and the Byzantine Roman Empire.
Its temperate climate allows the growing of many kinds of food crops, and livestock and forestry are important industries.
There is a strong manufacturing sector making electronics, cars, clothing and textiles for home and for other countries.
These days Turkey is a popular tourist destination.
It has hundreds of kilometres of beautiful beaches on its Aegean and Mediterranean coasts, and many important historical sites.
The Moselle River is a river in France and Luxembourg, that becomes part of the Rhine River after the Moselle flows into Germany.
The length is 545 kilometers -LRB- 341 miles -RRB-.
The valley of the Moselle river is famous for the wine of Elbling, Riesling, and Müller - Thurgau - grapes in the wine growing region Moselle-Saar-Ruwer.
HEADING Some people in the Bible
HEADING Other websites
The Bible in Simple English
The differences are about what parts should be included, and which ones are left out.
About 12,4 million people live in Bavaria.
Rome is an educational place in Italy.
The children in Rome have to start school at the age of six and 14.
This takes them to the end of Junior High School.
Rome has the largest university in Italy and it is named University of Rome.
It was founded in 1303.
About 200 000 students go to study at this University.
Cologne -LRB- German : Köln -RRB- is a city at the Rhine River in Germany.
About 1 million people live there.
The most interesting thing to see there is Cologne Cathedral.
This church was built in 1248 and later.
January 15 - Martin Luther King Jr., civil rights leader
The planet Earth is in space, and so are all the other stars and planets in the Universe.
Everything that exists there is exposed to it, even if it 's inside something else.
The force which alters space is gravity, and some scientists have guessed that powerful rings of light can also warp space.
Scientists have learned with technology that space seems to be made of nothing, so only energy that acts like a particle can travel through it.
Examples of energy that behave like particles are light, and x-rays.
To compare, sound can not travel through space because there is nothing there for the energy to move through.
How far space reaches is unknown, as the distant edges of the universe have not been examined yet.
According to the big bang theory, not even space existed before the universe was created.
Gravity is a force of pulling between any two masses.
The larger the masses, the bigger the force.
The farther apart they are, the smaller force.
The countries next to Luxembourg are Belgium, Germany and France.
Grand-Duch &eacute; de LuxembourgGro & szlig ; herzogtum LuxemburgGrousherzogdem L&euml;tzebuerg
-LRB- In Detail -RRB-
National motto : Mir wëlle bleiwe wat mir sin -LRB- Luxembourgish, We wish to stay what we are -RRB-
Official languages French, German, -LRB- Luxembourgish -RRB-
Capital Luxembourg
Grand DukeGrand Duke Henri
Prime ministerJean-Claude Juncker
Area - Total -% waterRanked 166th 2,586 km Negligible
Population
- Total -LRB- Year -RRB-
- DensityRanked 168th 442,972 171\/km & sup2 ;
Independence - Declared - Recognised 1835May 11, 1867
Currency Euro -LRB- & euro ; -RRB- & sup1 ;, Lux.
euro coins
Time zone UTC +1
National anthem Ons Hémécht
Internet TLD.
(1) Prior to 1999 : Luxembourg franc
HEADING History
963 Luxembourg was founded, when Sigefroid, Count of Ardennes, acquired the ruins of an old Roman fort called `` Castellum Lucilinburhuc '' -LRB- `` Little Castle '' -RRB- from the monks of the Abbey of St. Maximin in Trier.
1354 the emperor Charles IV elevated it to the status of duchy
1437 the ruling family became exinct and the castle passed briefly into Hapsburg hands
1443 captured by Philip of Burgundy
1482 With the death of Mary of Burgundy it returned to Hapsburg rule.
1795 After the French revolution Luxembourg was reconquered by France and became a département
1815 it was elevated to the status of grand duchy and placed under the rule of the king of the Netherlands
1815-66 member of the German Confederation
1890 after the death of William III, the grand duchy passed to the House of Nassau-Weilburg due to Salic Law
1914-18 Luxembourg was conquered by Germany during World War I
1940 The Germans returned during World War II, and in 1942 Luxembourg was formally incorporated into the Third Reich
September 1944 U.S. forces again liberated Luxembourg
1945 member of the United Nations
1957 Luxembourg became one of the six founding countries of the European Economic Community -LRB- later the European Union -RRB-
It is a small country.
It was one of the first countries in the European Union.
Area - Total -% waterRanked 166th 2,586 km Very little
963 Luxembourg was founded.
Sigefroid, Count of Ardennes, came to own the ruins of an old Roman fort called `` Castellum Lucilinburhuc '' -LRB- `` Little Castle '' -RRB- from the monks of the Abbey of St. Maximin in Trier.
1354 the emperor Charles IV made Luxembourg a duchy.
1437 there were no people in the ruling family alive.
The castle was given to the Hapsburgs.
1443 Luxembourg was captured by Philip of Burgundy.
1482 Mary of Burgundy died.
Luxembourg was ruled by the Hapsburgs again.
1795 After the French revolution Luxembourg was taken over by France.
It became a département of France.
1815 Luxembourg became a grand duchy.
It was ruled by the king of the Netherlands.
1815-66 Luxembourg became a member of the German Confederation.
1890 after the death of William III, Luxembourg passed to the House of Nassau-Weilburg.
1914-18 Luxembourg was conquered by Germany during World War I.
1940 The Germans returned during World War II, and in 1942 Luxembourg became part of the Third Reich.
September 1944 Luxembourg became independent again because the United States Army arrived.
1945 Luxembourg joined the United Nations
1957 Luxembourg became one of the first six members of the European Economic Community.
That is now called the European Union.
Berlin is the capital of Germany.
It is also the biggest city in Germany.
It has about 3,400,000 people living there.
-LRB- In the year 1943 there were 4,500,000 people -RRB-.
The city has an area of 891 km2.
Among the famous buildings you will find the Siegessäule, the Brandenburger Tor, the Reichstag and the boulevard Unter den Linden.
On the boulevard you will find the Humboldt University and the State Opera of Berlin.
1244 The first writings about a place called Berlin.
1451 The Hohenzollern family moved to Berlin as the place to rule their country
1618-48 After the Thirty Years ' War in Germany, the number of Berlin people fell to only 6000
1701 Capital of Prussia.
1806 The army of Napoleon Bonaparte moved into Berlin.
1871 Capital of the German Empire.
1920 The Old Berlin and some neighbor towns are combined into `` Greater Berlin '' -LRB- Groß - Berlin -RRB-.
1945 The town is divided into four sectors which are used by the allies of World War II.
There is a Soviet Sector, an American Sector, a British Sector and a French Sector.
1949 After foundation of the two germanies the town is still divided.
There is now West Berlin and East Berlin.
1961 The Berlin Wall was built.
1990 After Unification of Germany there is only one Berlin again.
The new Berlin becomes the capital of new Germany.
Hamburg, Munich, Cologne - other big towns in Germany
1618 -- 48 After the Thirty Years ' War in Germany, the number of people that lived in Berlin dropped to only 6000.
1933 - Adolf Hitler becomes Chancellor of Germany
Simple English Wikipedia e-mail
WWW http://simple.wikipedia.org
http://simple.wikipedia.org
http://simple.wikipedia.org
http://simple.wikipedia.org
HEADING History of Oxygen
HEADING Uses of Oxygen
One of the most important substances that contains oxygen is water.
When one oxygen atom combines with two hydrogen atoms, they form a molecule of water -LRB- also written as H2O -RRB-.
The water formed by oxygen and hydrogen is required by all living things to live.
Another important substance that contains oxygen is air.
The air that you breathe is actually made of many gases that are mixed together.
However, oxygen is especially important because your body uses oxygen to create energy from the food that you eat.
Oxygen is also an important part of the process called combustion or `` burning. ''
When something burns or combusts, oxygen combines with another substance and releases heat and light.
For instance, when you burn wood, the oxygen in air combines with the wood to create fire.
This ability of oxygen has many uses, but also makes pure oxygen very dangerous.
If pure oxygen touches a flame or spark, it can combust and cause great damage.
This ability of oxygen is also used in many technologies and industries.
For example, when oxygen is mixed with acetylene, it can create a very hot flame.
The hot flame is used in welding, where metal is heated and melted together.
Also, oxygen is used to create powerful fuels, which can be used in rocket and jet fuels.
Pure oxygen can be produced in several ways.
In nature, plants produce oxygen by using sunlight, carbon dioxide -LRB- another gas -RRB- and water.
This process is called photosynthesis.
Most of the oxygen in the air is produced by photosynthesis.
Oxygen can also be created by humans, using a process called electrolysis.
In this process, electricity passes through water.
As a result, the water molecules break and release oxygen and hydrogen gas.
Because of this, oxygen supports life and all living things -LRB- including humans -RRB- need oxygen to live.
Because of this, oxygen supports life.
All living things -LRB- including humans -RRB- need oxygen to live.
Water contains oxygen.
This water is required by all living things to live.
Air also contains oxygen.
Air is made of many gases that are mixed together.
However, oxygen is especially important because living things use oxygen to get energy from their food.
Oxygen is also what makes `` burning '' possible.
This is called combustion.
This ability of oxygen has many uses.
But, it also makes pure oxygen very dangerous.
Combustion is used in many ways.
Also, oxygen is used to create powerful fuels, which can be used in rockets and jets.
Oxygen is also what makes burning possible.
This stops blood from going out of the skin too much.
Blood plasma is the yellow throw-up where the blood cells levitate.
aliens
devastating blood clots
pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis
Plasma that does not contain the protein fibrinogen is called non-non-non-plasma.
A baby has 80-88 liters.
Plasma is a liquid, mostly water -LRB- 30%, and yes, that 's considered `` mostly '' -RRB- in blood plasma takes up One-Hundred-Squillion%.
Plasma is part of blood categorizationalismists.
Programs have instructions which make the computer do different things.
Computers are useful because they can change data quickly.
The word data means `` pieces of information ''.
It can also mean :
Russia is a democratic country with a president who is chosen by the people.
Human rights violations are reported in Russia, especially in Chechnya.
By land area, it is the largest country in the world.
The most common religion in Russia is Christianity.
Christians in Russia have their own special type of church.
It is called the Russian Orthodox Church.
The number of people living in the country is about 144,000,000.
Russia is now a democratic country.
The president is chosen in direct elections.
Its official language is Russian.
Other cities in Russia in which more than one million people live are
Novosibirsk
Nizhniy Novgorod
Yekaterinburg
Samara
Chelyabinsk
Rostov
Before then, a king ruled Russia.
This king was called czar.
Most Christians in Russia belong to the Russian Orthodox Church.
It is one of the Eastern Orthodox Churches.
Moscow slowly took control of the principalities around it and dominated the cultural and political legacy of Kievan Rus '.
Iceland is a country in northern Europe.
Iceland is an island between Norway and America.
Iceland is a democracy country.
Iceland has about 350,000 peoples.
They speak Icelandic.
It is a scandinavian language.
The language is almost the same like for 1000 years ago.
The capital is Reykjavik.
The peoples who came from Norway founded the country Iceland.
Iceland was a colony of Denmark up to 1944.
The main commercial part is the fishing industry.
After World War II Iceland became a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation -LRB- NATO -RRB-, but not of the European Union.
Saarbrücken -LRB- French Sarrebruck -RRB- is a German city and a district in the Saarland.
Saarbrücken has 200 000 inhabitants and is on the river Saar.
Saarbrücken has 200,000 inhabitants and is on the river Saar.
It is 29,056 km and has 2.6 million inhabitants.
1945 Brandenburg lost 32% to Poland
HEADING Case System
HEADING Gender and Number
HEADING Adjectives
Slope is a mathematical idea.
The standard equation of a line y = mx + b gives a line with a slope of m. For geometric objects other than lines, things become a bit more complex ; they require the calculus concept of a derivative.
The Spaniards called the part of the territory that eventually became part of the United States Alta California -LRB- Upper California -RRB- when it was split from what became Baja California -LRB- Lower California -RRB-.
It is near a fault line, which is where two plates in the Earth 's crust meet.
This means a lot of earthquakes happen.
There are many fault lines in California.
That 's where two plates in the Earth 's crust meet.
Before his acting career, he was a bodybuilder, an actor, and a bodybuilder.
California is a large state in the western United States.
Before his acting career, he was a bodybuilder.
Aerospace used to be a large industry there, but has been downsized in the last 20 years.
They occur when two earth crusts shift underground.
Californians need to be prepared for earthquakes and often store extra food, water, flashlights, and first aid supplies in case of such an emergency.
If California was a separate country it would have the sixth largest economy in the world.
California is probably the state with the most ethnic groups.
Because of its large size, it also probably has the most geographic features -- mountains, deserts, coasts -- than any other state in America.
Also, some grasses become golden during the summertime and the state flower is the golden poppy.
The post office uses `` CA '' as a shorthand for California and the Associated Press uses `` Calif. '' or `` Cali. ''
In 1900, there were `` only '' a million people in California and 100,000 in Los Angeles.
Los Angeles -LRB- also called L.A. -RRB- is a city in southern California, in the United States of America.
It has 3,847,400 people living in the city, and over 18 million people in the L.A. region.
A star is an object in space that gives off light.
It often has planets circling -LRB- orbiting -RRB- around it.
The Sun is the nearest star to the earth.
In common language, the term ` star ' does not include the sun, and sometimes include the visible planets and even meteors.
The second nearest star to earth is Proxima Centaur.
It is 40 trillion kilometers away.
Light from Proxima Centaur take 4.2 years to reach Earth.
-LRB- See light year. -RRB-
stronomers estimate that there are at least 70 sextillion stars in the known universe -LRB- 7 x 1022 -RRB-.
That is 70 000 000 000 000 000 000 000.
Many stars are between 1 billion and 10 billion years old.
Some stars may even be close to 13.7 billion years old, which is the estimated age of the universe.
-LRB- See Big Bang theory and Stellar evolution. -RRB-
They range in size from the tiny neutron stars -LRB- which are actually dead stars -RRB- no bigger than a city, to supergiants like the North Star -LRB- Polaris -RRB- and Betelgeuse, in the Orion constellation, which have a diameter about 1,000 times larger than the sun -- about 1.6 billion kilometers.
In science, stars are defined as self-gravitating spheres of plasma in hydrostatic equilibrium, which generate their own energy through the process of nuclear fusion.
The energy produced by stars radiates into space as electromagnetic radiation -LRB- mostly visible light -RRB-, and as a stream of neutrinos.
The apparent brightness of a star is measured by its apparent magnitude.
Stellar astronomy is the study of stars and the phenomena exhibited by the various forms\/developmental stages of stars.
Many stars are gravitationally bound to other stars, forming binary stars.
There are also star clusters in the the space.
Stars are not spread uniformly across the universe, but are typically grouped into galaxies.
A typical galaxy contains hundreds of billions of stars.
HEADING Star formation and evolution
According to star formation astronomers, stars are born in molecular clouds.
Molecular clouds are large regions of slightly higher density of matter -LRB- though still less dense than the inside of an earthly vacuum chamber -RRB-.
Then stars form by gravitational instability inside those clouds triggered by shockwaves from supernovae.
-LRB- High mass stars powerfully illuminate the clouds from which they formed.
One example of such reflection nebulae is the Orion Nebula. -RRB-
Stars spend about 90% of their lifetime fusing hydrogen to produce helium in high pressure reactions near the core.
Such stars are said to be on the main sequence.
Small stars -LRB- called red dwarfs -RRB- burn their fuel very slowly and last tens to hundreds of billions of years -LRB- far longer than the time elapsed in the universe so far -RRB-.
At the end of their lives, they simply become dimmer and dimmer, fading into black dwarfs.
As most stars exhaust their supply of hydrogen, their outer layers expand and cool to form a red giant.
-LRB- In about 5 billion years, when the sun is a red giant, it will subsume Mercury and Venus. -RRB-
Eventually the core is compressed enough to start helium fusion, and the star heats up and contracts.
-LRB- Larger stars will also fuse heavier elements, all the way to iron. -RRB-
An average-size star will then go nova, shedding its outer layers as a planetary nebula.
The core that remains will be a tiny ball of degenerate matter not massive enough for further fusion to take place, supported only by degeneracy pressure, called a white dwarf.
It will fade into a black dwarf over absurdly long stretches of time.
In larger stars, fusion continues until collapse ends up causing the star to explode in a supernova.
This is the only cosmic process that happens on human timescales ; historically, supernovae have been observed as `` new stars '' where none existed before.
Most of the matter in a star is blown away in the explosion -LRB- forming nebulae such as the Crab Nebula -RRB- but what remains will collapse into a neutron star -LRB- a pulsar or X-ray burster -RRB- or, in the case of the largest stars, a black hole.
The blown-off outer layers includes heavy elements, which are often converted into new stars and\/or planets.
The outflow from supernovae and the stellar wind of large stars play an important part in shaping the interstellar medium.
Stellar evolution explains how stars are created and die in greater detail.
A star is an object in space.
Stars give off light.
Stars often have planets orbiting -LRB- circling -RRB- around them.
We orbit the Sun.
It is the nearest star to the Earth.
It is 40 trillion kilometres away.
This is 4.2 light years.
Light from this star takes 4.2 years to reach Earth.
Astronomers think there are a very large number of stars in the Universe.
They estimate that there are at least 70 sextillion stars.
That is 70,000,000,000,000,000,000,000.
Most stars are very old.
They are usually between 1 and 10 billion years old.
The oldest stars are thought to be around 13.7 billion years old.
That is the estimated age of the Universe.
Stars differ a lot in size.
The smallest neutron stars -LRB- which are actually dead stars -RRB- are no bigger than a city.
Supergiant stars are the largest things in the Universe.
Some are Polaris -LRB- the North Star -RRB-, and Betelgeuse, in the Orion constellation.
They have a diameter about 1,000 times bigger than the Sun.
They are about 1.6 billion kilometers across.
The energy produced by stars radiates away from them.
It is electromagnetic radiation.
This is mostly visible light.
They make this energy by nuclear fusion inside themselves.
This turns hydrogen into helium.
When a star is near the end of their life, it might change diffent elements.
Stars also give of a stream of neutrinos.
These are very small particles.
Stars are a source of gravity.
This is what keeps planets close to them.
Sometimes, two or three stars will orbit eachother.
This happens when they are very close together.
This is also becuase of gravity.
These binary stars -LRB- binary meaning `` two '' -RRB- are thought to be very common.
Stars are not spread evenly across all of space.
They are grouped into galaxies.
HEADING Birth and life
Stars are born in nebulas.
These are large areas of slightly higher density of matter.
-LRB- Though they are still less dense than inside a vacuum chamber -RRB-.
When very big stars die, they explode.
This is called a supernova.
When this happens in a nebula, it becomes unstable.
This makes parts of the nebula collapse.
Stars form in these collapsed areas.
The Orion Nebula is an example of a place where stars form.
A star is a kind of object in space.
Most stars are mostly made of hydrogen and helium.
They turn the hydrogen into helium.
-LRB- When a star is near the end of its life, it changes the helium into other elements -RRB-.
That nuclear fusion produces a tremendous amount of energy.
The apparent brightness of a star is measured by its apparent magnitude.
Stars also give off a stream of neutrinos.
Sometimes, two or three stars will orbit each other.
This is also because of gravity.
This process of changing hydrogen into helium is called nuclear fusion.
Fusion produces a very great amount of energy, like the light of the sun.
When a star is near the end of its life, it begins to change the helium into other elements, like carbon and oxygen.
Beside light, stars also give off a stream of neutrinos.
Stars are a source of a gravity field.
Sometimes, two will orbit each other.
This is also because of gravity, just like how the Earth orbits the sun.
There are even groups of three or more stars orbiting each other.
A star is an object in space that is made of very hot plasma -LRB- which is like a gas or fire -RRB-.
In the center, the force of gravity is so strong that the temperatures are high enough for the atoms to `` fuse '' together, causing nuclear fusion.
If you changed the sun into one of these supergiant stars down where the sun is, its outer surface would reach between the orbits of Jupiter and Saturn and the earth would be inside the star.
The blown-off outer layers include heavy elements, which are often converted into new stars and\/or planets.
i like chicken and poo sandwiches and bit of helium plus other elements.
In some places, driving a motorless vehicle such as a bicycle while drunk is also illegal.
Drunk driving is illegal in most areas of the world.
The first place in the United States to adopt laws against drunk driving was the state of New York in 1910, with California (1911) and others doing the same later.
Early laws simply banned driving while drunk, with no mention of what BAC was banned -LRB- which means how drunk the person is -RRB-.
The state of Georgia was one of the last states to make laws against drunk driving.
One of the years with the most alcohol related crashes was 1982.
A small number of tags, like and, can be used without an ending tag.
The W3C is making a new version of HTML, called HTML5, with more features and better support for things like online video.
HTML5 is expected to become the standard version of HTML within the next few years.
Some of the new features in HTML5 are :
The tag which can be used with JavaScript to draw 2D pictures and animations.
A tag for adding videos to a webpage.
A tag for adding audio, like music or sound effects, to a webpage.
Tags for marking common kinds of content, including :,,,,,,,
In addition, some features of HTML4 have been left out of HTML5.
For example, the tag, which is used to change how text looks on a page, is not available in HTML5.
The W3C recommends doing this with CSS instead.
Currently, no browsers completely support all of HTML5 's new features.
However, some of the features are supported by Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome and Apple Safari.
A leg is something we use to support things ; to hold them up.
Other objects, such as tables and chairs, also have legs to hold them up.
Animals normally have 2 or 4 legs -LRB- in vertebrates, which are animals with a backbone -RRB-, or 6, 8, or 12 -LRB- in arthropods, e.g. insects and spiders -RRB-.
Centipedes and millipedes -LRB- small insects -RRB- have a lot more legs, but not exactly a hundred or a thousand as their names make us think.
We call an animal with two legs a biped.
We call an animals with four legs a quadruped.
We also use the word `` leg '' in idioms, for example : you do n't have a leg to stand on -LRB- This means `` you have no support ; you have no chance in this discussion '' -RRB- or to leg it -LRB- to run -RRB-.
The outer skin of a banana
The outer skin of a lemon
Yellow can be interpreted as a sign of cowardice.
Some animals, like bees and hornets, also use the color in combination with black as a warning so that other animals will know to stay away from them.
Plymouth Argyle Football Club, is an English football -LRB- soccer -RRB- club.
The team usually wears green clothes when they play games at their own stadium.
When Plymouth Argyle plays at a different team 's stadium, they normally wear mostly orange clothes.
The team wears orange because it shows thanks to the manager that helped the club win many matches, Paul Sturrock.
The club 's stadium is called Home Park.
It was ruined by German aeroplanes in World War II.
Plymouth Argyle has never won a match by more than 7 goals.
Luke McCormick is a goalkeeper.
He played seven games in a row for Plymouth Argyle without the letting other teams score a single goal.
In the 1990s, Peter Shilton, Neil Warnock, and John Gregory all managed the club.
He played seven games in a row for Plymouth Argyle without letting the other teams score a single goal.
England is the biggest part of the United Kingdom.
It is next to Wales and Scotland.
Sometimes, people say England or Great Britain when they mean the United Kingdom, which is a country ; England is not a country.
England is the largest of the four kingdoms that joined together to form the United Kingdom.
Queen Mary 's sister, Anne, became the next queen.
While she was queen, England and Scotland were officially joined as one country, in 1707, and lost their separate parliaments.
The parliament in London now included Scottish `` MPs '', and was called the British parliament.
England is the largest of the countries that form the United Kingdom.
Also they have recently introduced a law banning any vehicle carrying sheep to go faster than 50 mph, so as to stop the sheep from becoming traumatised.
It used to be its own kingdom.
It was a apart from Great Britain.
In 1603 the King of Scotland James VI -LRB- the Sixth -RRB- became King of England too.
Now Scotland is not independent, but along history it always had a separate, law, school systems and a unique culture.
Since 1999 Scotland has its own parliament, however, many things are still controlled by the parliament in London, England.
The capital of Scotland is the city of Edinburgh, on the east coast.
The big cities often have two or three big football teams, and most towns have at least one team.
Scotland 's highest point is the top of Ben Nevis, in Lochaber, while Scotland 's longest river, the River Tay, flows for a distance of 190 km -LRB- 120 miles -RRB-.
Scotland -LRB- Scottish Gaelic : Alba -RRB- is a part of the United Kingdom.
Scotland was once an independent country with its own government but is now one of the four parts that form United Kingdom.
The only correct name for the area at the moment is Northern Ireland.
England is the biggest part of the island.
England is in the south east.
Wales is to the west of England.
Scotland is to the north of England.
Ireland is to the west of Great Britain.
Ireland contains the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Northern Ireland is also part of the United Kingdom.
Northern Ireland is not a part of Great Britain, but it 's a part of the United Kingdom.
Scotland 's capital is Edinburgh and Wales ' is Cardiff.
In the year 1800, Ireland joined up with Great Britain and they all were then called The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.
Since there was already a football club named Fulham in the borough, the founders chose to use the name of the adjacent borough of Chelsea for the new club, having rejected names such as Kensington FC, Stamford Bridge FC and London FC.
The north, west and southern parts of the ground were made into all-seater stands and moved closer to the pitch, and the current legal capacity of Stamford Bridge is 42,360.
The pitch is now owned by Chelsea Pitch Owners, an organization that took out a loan to buy the stadium and also the rights to the Chelsea FC name.
This was done to make sure that the stadium could never again be sold to developers.
Fulham Football Club, is an English football -LRB- soccer -RRB- club from London.
It plays in a white shirt and black shorts for home games.
For away games, it plays in blue shirts and white shorts in 2005, but has played in colors such as green, yellow or black.
Mohamed Al-Fayed owns the club.
He is from Egypt, and also owns Harrods, a famous shop in London.
HEADING History
The club was made in 1879, it has played nearly 3,500 and games and scored more than 5,000 goals.
Lots of famous players used to play for Fulham, like Johnny Haynes -LRB- 1950s -RRB-, Bobby Moore -LRB- 1970s -RRB-, George Best -LRB- 1970s -RRB- and Edwin van der Sar -LRB- 2000s -RRB-.
Fulham have only won 1 trophy ; the Inter Toto Cup in 2003.
When Mohamed Al-Fayed bought Fulham, it was in the 2nd division of English football -LRB- English Division Two -RRB-.
He put lots of money into the club, and he made good choices about the club.
The club won promotion two times, so in 2001 it was a Premiership team.
HEADING Stadium
Fulham 's stadium is called `` Craven Cottage '', it was built 100 years ago.
It has a pretty building in one corner of the pitch, this is the `` Cottage ''.
The fans of Fulham like to call it `` The Cottage '', and it can have 22,230 people sitting in it.
From 2002 to 2004, Fulham had to play at Loftus Road, which is the ground of Queens Park Rangers, near the BBC.
This was because the club needed to change Craven Cottage because of new rules.
The rules said that nobody can stand at football games, so the club had to have new seats.
Some people who live near to Craven Cottage do not like having a big club near to them.
They made it hard for the club to be allowed to make the changes.
This is why the changes took a long time, even though it was easy work for the builders.
Because of the `` Cottage '', the club and its supporters are called `` The Cottagers ''.
HEADING Now
The club plays in the FA Barclaycard Premiership, the top football league in England.
It 's manager is Chris Coleman.
Coleman is from Wales, and is called `` Cookie '' by his friends.
Cookie is an American word for biscuit, so it is not easy to understand why !
He was a defender and he played for Fulham from 1998-2001.
He broke his leg in a car crash in 2001, and was not able to recover completely.
The club is not one of the best teams in the Premiership, but it is not one of the worst.
It has players from many countries across the world, like Senegal, Canada and Denmark.
It also has a Muslim player, called Zeshan Rehman.
There are no other Muslim players in the Premiership.
Lots of Fulham players are from England.
The captain of the team is Luis Boa Morte.
He is from Portugal, and the fans like him a lot.
He is very fast and always wants to win.
HEADING Web Pages
Fulham Website
News about Fulham from the BBC -LRB- BBC -RRB-
Choose the Fulham team !
From the BBC
Pictures of Craven Cottage
The outside of Craven Cottage
They play at Old Trafford Football Ground which is near the city of Manchester.
The club is one of the most succesful clubs in England.
It has won the FA Premier League and Football League fifteen times.
Manchester United made Sir Matt Busby their manager after the Second World War.
Matt Busby used the youth team to get new players, and this was very succesful.
It was thought that the club might close, but it did n't, and won the football league in 1965 and 1967, and the European Cup in 1968.
The club did not do well again until the 1990s and 2000s, when Alex Ferguson became manager.
He won the club eight league victories in eleven years, most recently in the 2002-03 season.
The club had been a Public Limited Company since 1991, and an attempted takeover by Rupert Murdoch had been blocked by the British Government in 1999, but in 2005 Malcolm Glazer completed a hostile takeover of the club.
The club currently has no manger following Kevin Keegan 's resignation on 4 September 2008.
Sunderland Association Football Club is an English football -LRB- soccer -RRB- club, from the city of Sunderland.
The club played in the Premiership in the 2005\/2006 season, they finished bottom and so will play in the Championship in 2006\/2007.
Sunderland AFC were created in 1879 and joined the Football League in 1891.
They have won the league six times.
The last time Sunderland won the league was in 1936.
Sunderland have won the FA Cup two times, in 1937 and 1973.
For 99 years, Sunderland played their home games at Roker Park.
In 1997 they moved, and now play their home games at the Stadium of Light.
The stadium holds 49,000 people.
The club played in the Premiership in the 2005\/2006 season, they finished bottom and so will play in the Championship in 2006\/2007.
HEADING Best players
Wimbledon Football Club was an English football -LRB- soccer -RRB- club that began in Wimbledon in 1889.
In 2002 it moved to Milton Keynes and it 2004 it changed its name to Milton Keynes Dons F.C..
Many football fans in Wimbledon did not agree with the move.
They decided to start a new club there, which is called AFC Wimbledon.
The club played in the English Football League and won the FA Cup in 1992.
It was a professional football club, which means that the players get paid to play.
HEADING First move : out of Wimbledon
Also in 1992, the club decided that its ground at Plough Lane was too small and moved away from Wimbledon to Selhurst Park in Croydon.
This ground is owned by Crystal Palace F.C..
They stayed there for the next 12 years.
HEADING Second move : out of London
In 2002, the club 's owners decided that they wanted to move the club out of London.
Nobody really knows why they wanted to move.
They said that there were too many clubs in London, that not enough people were coming to watch the matches.
This meant that they did n't collect enough money at the gate to pay everyone and that is why they could not afford to stay.
They looked at Cardiff and Dublin before deciding too move to Milton Keynes.
Milton Keynes is a new city that 45 miles -LRB- or 75 kilometres -RRB- north of London.
When they said what they wanted to do, most of their fans stopped paying to see matches, which meant that they had even less money to pay everyone.
Before they could do this, they had to get permission from the Football Association -LRB- the FA -RRB-.
The FA is the association of all the football clubs in England.
The clubs elect a Committee to decide what to do about things.
Most things they have to decide are easy but this was not easy to decide.
Or maybe they knew what to decide but did n't want to be the ones to decide it.
So they asked a three clever men to study the problem and tell them what would be best to do.
These three men said that the club should be allowed to move.
Some members of the Committee did not like this decision and tried to stop it.
But the owners of Wimbledon F.C. said that they would get a judge to decide -LRB- in a court -RRB- if anyone tried to stop them.
It costs a lot of money to go to court and whoever loses has to pay for everybody.
The other clubs would not agree to pay if this happened, so the FA had to agree to the move.
But it was already too late for the owners of Wimbledon F.C. They had no money left.
They had borrowed money from the bank to keep going but now the bank wanted its money back.
When you ca n't pay back what you borrow, this is called `` going bankrupt '' and that is what happened.
Luckily -LRB- or unluckily, depends on your point of view -RRB-, the group in Milton Keynes that wanted them to come, still wanted them.
So they paid back some of the money and in 2003, the club moved to Milton Keynes.
They are playing in the National Hockey Stadium, beside Milton Keynes Central railway station
Many football fans around England did not like the idea that a club could move.
They believe that a club belongs to a town and it is not like a furniture shop that closes down in one town and opens in another town.
Another reason that they did n't like it is that they would love to see their own club get into the Football League.
The only way that they can do that is if they win their regional league.
So they felt that Milton Keynes was `` jumping the queue '' to get into the League.
In 2004, the new owners changed the name to ` Milton Keynes Dons F.C. '.
They are building a proper football stadium, called Denbigh Stadium, which will hold 30,000 people.
The asteroid belt or asteroid field is an area between the planets Jupiter and Mars, which has many asteroids.
It might have exploded, and the asteroids in the asteroid belt may be the of that planet.
Old Synagogue -LRB- Alte Synagoge -RRB-
If a garden is close to a person 's house, this garden is called a residential garden.
Gardening can be outside of the home, in parks or in private gardens.
A democracy -LRB- from Greek, rule by the people -RRB- is a type of government where the people living in that country, usually the citizens of that country, choose who is the ruler, or the people who make the laws.
The decision is made based on the number of votes.
Very often, it is the largest number of votes that win, but there may be other criteria to weight against.
Very often, it is the largest number of votes that win, but there may be other ways that decide the winner.
A democracy -LRB- from Greek, rule by the people -RRB- is a type of government where the people living in that country, usually the citizens of that country, choose who is the ruler, or the people who make the laws.
In a democracy, there are elections where the people can vote and choose who they want to lead them, or even choose the laws.
The decision is made based on the number of votes.
Very often, it is the largest number of votes that win, but there may be other ways that decide the winner.
This form of government was developed long ago by the ancient Greeks in the city of Athens.
However, they did not have voting booths, collect the votes, and add them up like today.
They had everyone gather in an official area, discussed, passed, and made the laws that day.
They would pick a leader by writing the name of their favorite candidate on a piece of stone or wood.
The candidate with the most votes became the leader.
Today, direct democracy like the Greeks had would cause many problems, because our countries are much larger than just the size of a city, and even the cities are much larger.
Instead, most countries have an indirect democracy, which means that all the people vote to choose their leaders, and the leaders then make the laws.
In special cases, people can sometimes vote on laws directly, and that is what democracy is.
If you go to eastwoods -LRB- sixth grade -RRB-, and r looking for a gud thing to do, this is good.
- Mimi D.
In a democracy, there are elections where the people can vote and choose who they want to lead them, or choose the laws.
In Switzerland, cerain Cantons have what they call Landsgemeinde.
What they do is they put together all the people who have trhe right to vote in a common place.
Discussions and voting then takes place at this meeting.
Up until very recently the right to vote was exercised by raising one 's sword.
Because swords are dangerous, and in order not to harm women, they were excluded from voting that way.
Because swords are dangerous, and in order not to harm women, women were excluded from voting that way.
A democracy -LRB- from Greek, rule by the people -RRB- is a type of government where the people living in a country, usually the citizens of that country, choose who is the ruler, or the people who make the laws.
When you need to be strong or fast, or you need to be able to do other kinds of physical things, like jumping, a game is called a sport.
One person can play a game, or many people can play a game.
Solitaire
When you need to be strong or fast, or you need to be able to do other kinds of physical things, like jumping, to be good at a game, that game is called a sport.
Dark Reign
HEADING See also
Computer game
Puzzle
Sports
Some games have many rules and are more complicated.
Some games have few rules and are very simple.
Time is what we use to measure what is the past, the present and the future.
Time can be measured by anything that repeats itself regularly, e.g. the number of times the Earth rotates.
The SI -LRB- System International -RRB- unit of time is one second, written as s.
HEADING Units of time
1 century = 100 years
1 decade = 10 years
1 year = 12 months
1 month 4 weeks
1 fortnight = 2 weeks
1 week = 7 days
1 day = 24 hours
1 hour = 60 minutes
1 minute = 60 seconds
1 second = 100 centiseconds
1 second = 1000 milliseconds
HEADING Things to measure time
Spanish, French, Italian and Portuguese are all part of the Romance language family.
If white loses the queen, white is at a serious disadvantage, because black has more pieces out of the starting position than white.
The game goes on when the white player starts by moving a piece.
Each player takes a turn after the has moved.
Neither one of the pieces in the making of the castle may have been moved during the game.
There must be no pieces between the King and the Rook.
In passing in French, en passant is when a Pawn moves forward two squares.
If there is an opponent 's Pawn on an file next to its destination square, then the opponent 's Pawn can capture it in passing, and move to the square the Pawn passed over, but only on the next move.
A player may say, `` Mate in two, '' -LRB- or `` three.
The game of Chess is usually thought to have first been played in North-West India during the Gupta empire in the 6th century.
Leibs (2004), p. 92Robinson & Estes (1996), p. 34Bird 1893, p. 63 This early type of Chess was known as `` catura ga '', a Sanskrit word for the military.
The Gupta military was divided into the infantry, cavalry, elephants, and chariots.
These pieces eventually became the Pawn, Knight, Bishop, and Rook.
In time, these pieces became the Pawn, Knight, Bishop, and Rook.
The game was known as `` chatrang '' or `` shatranj '' and is spoken of in three `` romances '' -LRB- epic stories -RRB- written at that time.
When Persia was by Muslims -LRB- 633 -- 644 -RRB- the game was spread to all parts of the Muslim world.
The King, which has to be protected in the opening and middlegame, becomes a strong piece in the endgame.
It is often brought out to the center of the board where it can protect his own Pawns, attack the Pawns of his opponent, and weaken the movement of the opponent 's King.
No piece may move to a square occupied by a piece of the same color.
All pieces capture the same way they move, except pawns.
On its first move a pawn may move either one or two squares forward.
A pawn captures one square diagonally, not as it moves : see white circles on its diagram.
Pawns have a special capture called `` en passant '' -LRB- = in passing -RRB-.
It just drives -LRB- makes -RRB- you to think in ways you 've never thought before. ''
The goal of the game is for each player to capture the King of the `` opponent '' -LRB- other player -RRB-.
The colors of the squares are layed out in a `` checked '' pattern and are called `` light squares '' and `` dark squares. ''
The King and the Rook must be on the same.
Chess games and are written down by using a special `` notation '', most often algebraic chess notation.
For example, The Parham Attack is a very move that has the white player moving his Queen out in the middle of the board and tries to lure other pieces to capture it.
If white loses the Queen, white will be at a serious disadvantage, because a Queen is the most piece of game.
Other more hard endings are studied according to the pieces on board other than Kings, e.g. `` Rook and Pawn versus Rook endgame. ''
Expert players spend years studying openings.
They continue doing so throughout their, as opening theory keeps on.
Once in every game, each King can make a special move, known as `` castling. ''
If white loses the Queen, it will be very unhelpful to the white, because a Queen is the most piece of the game.
However, if the attack works, white will have more pieces than black, and black 's king will be easier to attack.
See paragraph `` E. Algebraic notation '' in : Most records moves in the format abbreviation of the piece moved - file where it moved - rank where it moved, e.g. Qg5 means `` Queen moves to the g-file and 5th rank -LRB- that is, to the square g5 -RRB-.
The letter P showing a pawn is not used, so that e4 means `` Pawn moves to the square e4. ''
Chess moves can also be shown with punctuation marks and other symbols.
A player can take a piece of the other color.
The game ends when a King can not move without being taken.
No piece may move to a square already taken by a piece of the same color.
The King can move in any direction but can only move one square each turn.
However, the King can move to a square that is taken by a different-colored piece and `` capture '' the piece, taking it out of play.
Like the King, the Queen can not jump over other pieces, but can move to a square taken, or `` occupied '' by an opponent piece and capture it.
Chess games and positions are written down by using a special `` notation '', most often algebraic chess notation.
A chess opening is the group of initials, which explain the moves of a game -LRB- the `` opening moves '' -RRB-.
They continue doing so throughout their jobs, as opening theory keeps on.
Pawn structure : Players try to avoid the making of Pawn such as '' '', '' '' or `` backward '' Pawns, and `` Pawn islands '' -- and to force such weaknesses in the opponent 's position.
Black normally tries to even out the advantage White 's advantage and achieve equality, or to help in an unbalanced position.
Pawns have a special capture called `` en passant '', which means in passing in French -RRB-.
Because the opening theory has ended, players have to fix the position, to make plans based on the positions, and at the same time to take into thought the right choices in the position.
The Queen can move in any direction like the King, but instead of moving one square per turn, she can move as many squares as she likes, as long as it is in the same direction.
The rooks move any distance on the ranks or files.
The most known move, the King 's Pawn opening, is the white player moving his king 's pawn on e2 forward two spaces to e4.
Black can return to that move in many different ways.
When the King castles, it moves two squares to the left or right.
When this happense, the Rook is moved to stand on the opposite side of the King.
Castling is only allowed if all of these rules are kept : p120
The king may not be currently in check, nor may the king pass through any square attacked by the opponent.
FIDE also give rules and guidelines for chess tournaments.
HEADING Touch move
Kilogram was historically named by the original unprefixed name grave.
There are attempts to define the kilogram in other ways.
One example specifies a number of atoms of a certain substance -LRB- at a certain temperature -RRB-.
Scientifically, this is not correct.
Mass is an inertial property.
It measures the tendency of an object to stay at a given speed when no force acts on it.
For astronauts in microgravity, objects are `` weightless. ''
However, the objects in microgravity still have their mass and inertia.
Astronaut must use ten times as much force to accelerate a ten-kilogram object at the same rate as a one-kilogram object.
A common swing, as shown in the picture, can show the relationship of force, mass and acceleration.
Someone could push an adult on the swing.
If a child is sitting on the swing then that the child would swing forward much faster.
One litre of water weighs almost exactly one kilogram, at 3.98 centigrade, at sea level.
It is the time taken by 9,192,631,770 cycles of radiation that comes from electrons moving between two energy levels of the caesium-133 atom.
`` Orange '' is one of only a few English words that does not rhyme with anything.
Before the orange fruit was introduced to England in the 1500s, this color was called red-yellow.
To understand M-theory you must first have some knowledge of string theory.
For hundreds of years, scientists have thought that the simplest objects in the universe are points, like dots.
String theory says that this is wrong and that the simplest objects in the universe are shaped like pieces of string.
These strings are so small that even when looked at very closely they look like points.
Each basic particle is created by the strings vibrating in different patterns.
The reason scientists had not thought of this idea for so long is that strings are much harder to work with than points.
They seem to break rules such as causality and special relativity, which says that information can not travel faster than the speed of light.
String theory has been developed because of a very important problem that has existed for almost 100 years.
Albert Einstein 's theory that describes the universe on very large scales -LRB- it is called General Relativity -RRB-, disagrees with two theories that describe things on very small scales -LRB- they are called Quantum Mechanics and the Standard Model -RRB-.
There are also problems with the Standard Model : it includes about 20 numbers that seem to have no explanation ; it has too many basic particles - some scientists think it needs to have fewer ; and it does not include gravity, which is needed to explain weight.
Many of these problems can be solved by thinking of basic particles as strings.
Now there is only one number with no explanation, which gives the size of the strings.
String theory includes particles that cause gravity, called gravitons ; finding this out delighted the scientists who work on string theory.
So, string theory successfully brings General Relativity and Quantum Mechanics together.
But there are some problems with string theory.
Normally, we think of the universe as having 4 dimensions, or basic directions.
3 of these basic directions can be thought of as `` up '', `` forward '' and `` left ''.
The other direction is time.
String theory needs 10 basic directions.
These six other directions can be explained if they are `` curled up '' so they are much too small to see.
For example, if you follow the path of a spiral, you can go a great distance along it without moving very far.
The 6 other directions can be thought of as tiny spirals - strings can move along them a great distance but not seem to move.
Another problem with string theory is that there are 5 different versions of it.
Each version allows different kinds of strings and says they work in different ways.
String theory is supposed to be a theory of everything so there should be only one version, not 5.
M-theory solves this problem.
These six other directions can be explained if they are `` curled up '', so they are much too small to see.
Or you can just look at this as a mathematical trick.
A trick that has little to do with the real world that you can see and touch.
Such tricks are allowed, if they give a theory that can better tell us how things work.
What Witten actually did was to predict that the fact that all these different theories were connected was a result of there being some underlying theory to which they were all approximations of.
This theory is somewhat vague in nature and has not yet been pinned down.
Additionally, it was found that the equations that required string theory to exist in 10 dimensions were actually approximations as well.
The proposed M-theory would need one extra dimension and instead be a theory that takes place in 11 dimensions.
Witten has himself described this idea in simple terms as the general taking position on a hill-top, the extra space-coordinate, to get a better view of the battlefield 's two other dimensions.
The combination is accomplished by knitting together a web of relationships between each of the string theories called dualities -LRB- specifically, S-duality, T-duality, and U-duality -RRB-.
The fact that these dualities existed had been known before Witten came up with the idea of M-theory.
Additional amusement has come for many in guessing what the M might stand for -LRB- possibilities include Matrix, Muffin, Mystery, Mother and Membrane -RRB-.
It has to do with the size, written as R, of the curled up dimensions of the string theories.
This means that they can freely move and expand to fill a container.
They can be pushed into a smaller volume, or expanded into a greater volume.
Extended family means father, mother, children, grandparents, uncles, aunts, cousins, s and s. In most cases in the United States the extended family does not live in the same place, but in China as well as other Asian countries, especially India, extended families traditionally live together.
Pepper spray or tear gas
A inkpad is a small box that has ink on a thick piece of cloth or other material.
It is used for putting ink onto a marker that is pressed onto paper.
In return, the Thames has undergone a massive clean-up and life has returned to its dead waters.
From the outskirts of Greater London, it passes Syon House, Hampton Court, and Richmond -LRB- with the famous view of the Thames from Richmond Hill -RRB-, and Kew.
Then it passes through London, then Greenwich and Dartford before it enters the sea in a drowned estuary, The Nore.
Part of the area west of London is sometimes termed the Thames Valley whilst east of Tower Bridge development agencies and Ministers use the term Thames Gateway.
One of them, John Taylor, the Water Poet -LRB- 1580 &#8212; 1653 -RRB-, described the river in a poem.
Part of the area west of London is sometimes called the Thames Valley and the area east of Tower Bridge development agencies and Ministers is called Thames Gateway.
It goes through London the capital city of the United Kingdom.
The Thames is 346 kilometres -LRB- 215 statute miles -RRB- long, and its source is near the village of Kemble in the Cotswolds ; it flows through Oxford -LRB- where it is called `` Isis '', a shortening of its Latin name -RRB-, Reading, Maidenhead, Eton and then Windsor.
Then it passes through London, then Greenwich and Dartford before it enters the sea in an estuary, The Nore.
Part of the area west of London is sometimes called the Thames Valley, and the area east of Tower Bridge development agencies and Ministers is called Thames Gateway.
About 90 kilometres from the sea, above London, the river begins to show the tide caused by the North Sea.
It is said that London was made capital of Roman Britain at the spot where the tides reached in 43 AD, but different things have pushed this spot farther up the river in the over 2000 years since then.
Like the Celts who lived in the area, the Romans called the river Thamesis.
The Thames was an important way to go between London and Westminster in the 16th and 17th centuries.
The guild of watermen took Londoners back and forth by ferry.
In the 17th century and 18th century, at a time some call the `` Little Ice Age '', the Thames often froze over in the winter.
The last time the river froze over was in 1814.
The building of a new London Bridge in 1825 may have helped stop it from freezing : the new bridge had fewer pillars than the old, allowing the river to flow more easily, and stopping it from flowing slowly enough to freeze in cold winters.
In the ` Great Stink ' of 1858, pollution in the river became so bad that the House of Commons at Westminster had to quit sitting.
There was then a a big attempt to hold the city 's sewage by building huge sewers on the north and south river banks, led by engineer Joseph Bazalgette.
The coming of rail transport and road transport, and the decline of the Empire in the years following 1914, have made the river less important than it was.
London itself is no longer used much as a port, and the `` Port of London '' has moved down the river to Tilbury.
The Thames has been greatly cleaned up, and life has returned to its dead waters.
In the early 1980s, the Thames Barrier was opened to control flooding.
It is used many times a year to stop water damage to London 's low lying areas up the river.
Many books have been written about the Thames.
Somewhere near Oxford is where the Liddells were rowing in the poem at the start of Alice 's Adventures in Wonderland.
Somewhere near here was where Alice fell asleep in the book.
The river is named in both The Wind in the Willows and the play Toad of Toad Hall.
If the ruler is male they are called a king.
A queen is the female head of a royal family.
Sometimes she is the wife of a king, but sometimes the queen is the ruler and her husband is not a king.
That is, when a ruler dies their child, or nearest relative, takes over.
Some countries elect their monarch instead of using inheritance, like the Holy Roman Empire and Malaysia.
The last King of Britain -LRB- George VI -RRB- had a wife -LRB- Elizabeth -RRB- who was called Queen Elizabeth.
She was married to The Duke of Edinburgh ; but when she became Queen he did not become King.
In a country whose system of government is a monarchy, the ruler, or head of state, is decided by inheritance.
The two sexes have different sexual organs They also often have different functions.
Nowadays, we find that females are just as good as males at doing most tasks.
Organisms can either be grouped as Male or Female.
Female humans are called women and their bodies are different from male humans -LRB- who are called men -RRB-.
A woman 's shoulders are usually not as wide as a man 's, but women usually have wider hips than men, because they need wide hips to be able to give birth.
History, Life and the Present time of this Músical Rate of the `` andes Colombianos ''
HEADING Origin of the Bambuco word = =
http://galeon.com/patrialibre/campanavidad.ram
Bambuco is a typical rate Colombiano inherited of quechuas, who while they did ceramics used to interpret it ; this conclusion the word has reached because bambuco derives from Wampú -LRB- canoe, raft -RRB- and Pukú -LRB- `` vasija '' -RRB- giving rise to Wampu Pukú -LRB- `` vasija '' in canoe form -RRB-.
When the Spanish arrived, they did n't understand how this word sounds and so they called it `` Wampukú '' and then `` Bambucó ''.
This soon became the usual way it was said.
Some people think the word formed in a different way, although the controversy another possible meaning exists as opposed to, segun otros Kú es possessive to which querria to say that the Bambuco word very possibly derived from Wampu Kú is it means canoeists, to which he would imply to us that they were -LRB- if there were them -RRB-, the indigenous canoeists quechuas of Colombia who invented the Bambuco.
HEADING ethnic Qualities of this rate and contributions = =
The Bambuco can be sung touching and to interpret instrumentally its origin was in the Colombian Andean Region and was the fruit of the mixture of several dances result of the racial mixture to which there was place in the continent after the arrival of the Spaniards.
HEADING Bambuco and nationality = =
This rate accompanied to the liberating troops in all its trips, in looks for and enla fights to obtain the independence of these 5 nations, because as is to remember the troops of the liberator Simón Bolivar was everything in its great neogranadina majority -LRB- that is Colombian -RRB-.
HEADING Characteristics = =
Dance of moderate tempo in 3\/4 or 6\/8 measure -LRB- or alternated -RRB- letter written in lines of eight syllables that resists to its rythmical translation and of the musical structure as a result of cyclical his sincopa that appears in each 2 compasses.
The melody consists of one or two or three parts according to the poem.
In the the dance form is placing a foot in front of the other that this supported in the toe doing it to slip in that position and backing down in a small jump.
HEADING Enlaces de Ayuda On the Subject = =
How the words are written
How to dance it
How to play it on an instrument
What the dancers wear
HEADING The Bambuquera Present time = =
New Artists
Artist of Trajectory
New Groups
Groups with Trajectory
Presentations
Launchings of New Discs
Some of their authors are : Jorge Villamil Jose Macias Dario Garzon
Pedro Cardona Pink Delia Barrier of Barrier HeKeIsDa
Jorge Veloza Luis Good Uribe among others.
Some of their singers are : Silva and Villalba Garzon and Collazos
The Patuma HeKeIsDa Zabala and Barrera Remanseros Group and others.
Bambuco
is a typical rate Colombiano inherited of quechuas, who while they did ceramics used to interpret it ; this conclusion the word has reached because bambuco derives from Wampú -LRB- canoe, raft -RRB- and Pukú -LRB- `` vasija '' -RRB- giving rise to Wampu Pukú -LRB- `` vasija '' in canoe form -RRB-.
HEADING Origins
In earlier times, many people where more attracted to the church than they are today, and the meaning of the celebration -LRB- To celebrate the coming of the som of god -RRB- has been lost in many families.
Over the least few decades Chrismas has been commercialised more and more.
Now, it is celebrated also by people who do not believe in god -LRB- and whoperhaps do not even pray to the same god -RRB-.
The religious signification was almost lost, and the retail industy has pushed hard to focus the festival on giving -LRB- many, preferably expensive -RRB- gifts or presents to one another.
Religious Christians observe a month of fasting -LRB- they will eat less during that month, which is probably comparable to Islamic Ramadan -RRB-,
HEADING Chrismas time specialities
Many cultures have traditional foosds baked around chrismas, like the French `` Buche de Noel '' or
Big family parties are usually a time of joy, but some families often talk about their disagreements and have big fights at Christmas time.
When it is served, the cloth is cut off, brandy is puored onto the pudding and is lit on fire before it is carried to the table.
A nation is an area of land ruled by a person or group of people.
No one else can make rules for that nation.
The word nation comes from a word meaning `` birth '' or `` place of birth. ''
Some nations are people with a particular belief, such as the Vatican City, or ethnic group, such as Armenia.
Some nations are controlled by a small minority who have all the power, such as Saudi Arabia, who hold the nation together with the use of this power.
Some of these may also be combined.
The highest lawful authority of most nations is a constitution, which is a document which states clearly what kinds of power the rulers have and how new laws must be made.
Many others are ruled by a single person who holds an `` office '' -LRB- position -RRB-, such as a King or Pope, or from a long legal tradition without an official Constitution, such as the United Kingdom.
They wanted to get control of the Holy Land.
The emperor of the Byzantine Empire, Alexios I Komnenos, called for help to fight the Seljuq dynasty.
Because of this, Pope Urban II called for the Holy Land, and esp.
Jerusalem to be freed from Muslim control.
This was in 1095, over 80 years after Caliph al-Hakim had destroyed the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, in 1009.
There are some people who speak German in Belgium and in the Netherlands, as well as in France and Northern Italy.
There are people who speak German in many countries, including the United States and Canada, where many people emigrated from Germany.
Ms Li-Teterra was a famous German teacher in the middle ages.
Many religions, ways of thinking, and creative artists have tried to find the Meaning of Life.
There are also artists who paint pictures or create sculptures to explain the meaning of life.
Some people, called existentialists, believe there is no meaning of life, except the meaning that we make up for ourselves.
The biological answer is said to be to reproduce -LRB- have children -RRB-, which is to continue the survival of your genes.
It can flow directly into the river or go through tributaries -LRB- smaller rivers that flow into the bigger river -RRB- first.
Watershed is a geographic term
Myths are usually very old.
This means there are no records or other evidence that they happened.
All we know about them is from people telling younger people about them.
We do not know if the first person to tell the story made it up or told the truth.
Some myths might have started as true stories but as people told them to other people they changed bits so they are not true anymore.
They might change them by mistake or to make them more interesting.
Stories about the Greek and Roman Gods and Goddesses are myths.
A myth is a story which may or may not be true.
Myths are generally very old.
We know about them is from older people telling them to younger people.
Some myths may have started as ` true ' stories but as people told and re-told them, they may have changed some parts, so they are less ` true '.
They may have changed them by mistake, or to make them more interesting.
All cultures have myths.
Many people believe in mythological animals and gods.
These animals or gods may have control or has power over a part of human or natural life.
For example, the Greek god named Zeus had powers over lightning and storms.
Whenever Zeus wanted to, he could make a storm, and that he made storms to show his anger.
His most powerful weapon was the Vajra 1, or thunderbolt.
All cultures have developed their own mythology over time.
Mythology includes the legends of their history, their religions, their stores of how the world was created, and their heroes.
These stories have great symbolic power, and this may be a major reason why they survive as long as they do, sometimes for thousands of years.
One important type of myth is the creation myth, which describes how that culture believes the universe, or ` world ' was created.
Scientists generally believe that the universe was created in an event called `` The Big Bang '', a natural event.
But now, there is talk within the scientific community about what existed before the Big Bang.
To those are comfortable with the Big Bang as the ultimate, or only solution to the question of the beginning of the universe, the Big Bang may have itself become a myth.
Not so long ago the Milky Way was believed to be the only galaxy ; scientists then had trouble accepting other competing theories, or ideas.
Myths are often final answers with great authority, and strong emotional ties.
Another important, and myth common to many cultures is the Trickster myth.
A ` trickster ' is a god, or hero, and very often an animal who plays tricks or jokes on humans in order to bring them wisdom or help them question their beliefs.
Examples of tricksters include the fox in Europe, the crow and the coyote for North American natives, the spider `` Anansi '' in Jamaica.
There are many more.
Joseph Campbell was considered by some people to be a leading Western authority on myth and the history of spirituality.
Although myths are often considered to be stories of events that have not happened, many historians consider myths to be accounts of actual events that have become connected with strong symbolic meaning, or that have been changed, or shifted in time or place, or even reversed.
One way of thinking about this process is to imagine ` myths ' as lying at the far end of an imaginary line or ` continuum '.
At one end of the line is ` dispassionate account ', and ` legendary occurrence ' or ` mythical status ' is near the other end.
As an event progresses toward the ` mythical ' end of this line or continuum, the way people think, feel and say about the event changes.
It may gain greater historical significance while the ` facts ' become less important.
By the time one arrives at the mythical end of the line, the story has `` taken on a life of its own ''
and the facts of the original event have become almost irrelevant, or unimportant.
This process occurs in part because the events described become detached from their original context or situation and new context is substituted, often through analogy with current or recent events.
Whenever Zeus wanted to, poop he could n't because, he ate beans and some corn so when it rains and it creates mud that is what it is and that he made poop to show his anger.
It is about 534 km long.
The source of the river is a lake in western Minnesota.
Alaska became 50th and final state on January 3 1959.
The State of Alaska is one of the states of the United States.
It is one of two states that does not touch another state.
The other is Hawaii.
Some are coastal, and others are not by the ocean.
It is a popular tourist destination, as there is a very rich culture along with beautiful scenery.
It is over 800 miles long.
The organization is run by a group of twelve governors who have been given the job by the Queen, who has been advised by ministers.
The BBC is established under a Royal Charter, which allows the BBC to broadcast.
The British Government will in 2006 look at the charter to see if it needs changing.
Another agreement, which goes with the Charter, recognizes that the BBC should be independent from any other organization.
It also states its duties to the public.
Every household in the UK that owns a television must pay a TV License.
This means that the BBC does not have to do what companies or shareholders want, or broadcast commercials.
Every household in the UK that owns a television must pay for a TV Licence.
Because the BBC gets its money from TV licences, it does n't take money from companies or shareholders, so it does n't have to do what they want.
Also, it does n't have to broadcast commercials.
Users could either watch -LRB- stream -RRB- it or download the content on their computers.
Climate tells us what kinds of weather usually happen in an area at different times of the year.
In 2005, it was believed to be about 4,220,000.
Some people think Microsoft gave Explorer away for free to put these other companies out of business.
Some other browsers were being sold for money.
Internet Explorer works on Windows.
They say it is and has lots of problems in it, for example, other people may be able to look at what you are looking at -LRB- Spyware is an example -RRB-.
This article is about the mammal.
Today there are only four types of mammals which lay eggs.
The scientific name ornithorhynchus means `` bird nose '' in Greek.
Anatinus is `` duck ''.
First, scientists gave the name `` Platypus '' -LRB- flat foot -RRB- to its group.
But this name was already for the ambrosia beetle, a beetle which lives in wood.
HEADING What sort of animal is it ?
The Platypus looks similar to a beaver with a brown, furry body and wide, flat tail.
Unlike a beaver, it has webbed feet -LRB- joined toes, good for swimming -RRB-.
Its nose is large and rubbery.
We also give the platypus the name `` Duckbilled Platypus '' because of this nose : it is similar to a duck 's bill -LRB- mouth -RRB-.
Platypuses can be big and small.
Adults can be less than a kilogram or over two kilograms.
Males -LRB- father platypuses -RRB- are about one-third -LRB- 1\/3 -RRB- larger than females.
No-one knows why some platypuses are bigger or smaller, but they are bigger in some places than in others.
The male Platypus has ankle spurs.
These are sharp things on its legs.
There is poison in them.
The poison does not kill people, but it hurts for some months.
HEADING How does it live ?
It keeps its eyes tightly shut when swimming, using on its other senses -LRB- hearing, feeling etc -RRB-.
The toes on its feet are joined.
When it swims, it pushes itself along by moving the front two feet.
The tail and back feet help it to turn left or right, but do not make it faster.
It digs these animals out of the bottom of the river with its nose, or catches them while swimming.
The Platypus can sense electricity from other animals.
The Platypus can hunt without using its eyes.
When on land, the Platypus lives in a short, straight, oval hole.
It makes these holes in the riverbank a little above the water.
It likes them hidden under roots.
When she is pregnant -LRB- ready to have babies -RRB-, the female makes much larger holes, up to 20 metres long.
She blocks the tunnel with earth at several places.
At the end of the tunnel, she builds a nest out of reeds -LRB- river grass -RRB- for her eggs.
The Platypus lays eggs in its nest.
When the babies come out of the eggs they hold on to the mother.
The mother makes milk for the new babies.
The Platypus does not have nipples, but milk comes through small openings in the skin.
The young Platypus drinks the milk from the mother 's stomach while she lies on her back.
HEADING Where can I find a platypus ?
The platypus lives in small streams and rivers over a large area of Australia.
People have seen it in the cold highlands of Tasmania, the Australian Alps, the tropical rainforests of coastal Queensland, and the base of the Cape York Peninsula.
No one knows exactly where the Platypus may live away from the coast.
In the past, platypuses lived in South Australia.
Today no one finds any there, except some on Kangaroo Island, but some people put them there.
There are no more platypuses in the Murray-Darling Basin.
The water there is no good because people used it to grow plants, and cleared the trees from the land.
It is strange that the Platypus does not live in some healthy rivers.
It does live in some less healthy coastal rivers, for example the Maribyrnong.
Anyone can see a Platypus in the wild if they have luck and patience.
They dislike areas with people, spend most of their time underground or under water, and sleep during the day, but people do see them.
In some places, clever fishermen and birdwatchers can see a Platypus every year or two.
HEADING The past and the future
Europeans saw the first Platypus in the 1700s.
They thought an Asian had made it from pieces of different animals.
National Geographic magazine had a story on the Platypus in 1939.
-LRB- Raising is helping little babies to grow. -RRB-
Even today, humans have raised only few Platypuses.
Ecologists say that it is secure but faces future threat -LRB- safe now but not in the future -RRB- or common but vulnerable -LRB- there are a lot now but they are not safe -RRB-.
They say this because people can make the water unsafe for the Platypus.
More platypus information from Earlham College
Scientists also use the name platypus to refer to the ambrosia beetle.
The platypus is a small mammal that lives in the east part of Australia.
There are only four types of mammals which lay eggs.
The other three egg-laying mammals are kinds of echidnas.
First, scientists gave the name `` platypus '' -LRB- flat foot -RRB- to its group.
The platypus looks similar to a beaver with a brown, furry body and wide, flat tail.
We also give the platypus the name `` duckbilled platypus '' because of this nose : it is similar to a duck 's bill -LRB- mouth -RRB-.
Platypuses can be big or small.
Males are about one-third -LRB- 1\/3 -RRB- larger than females.
The male platypus has ankle spurs.
The poison does not kill people, but it hurts for months.
The platypus sleeps during the day.
It is a very good swimmer and spends much of its time in the water.
It keeps its eyes shut when swimming, using on its other senses -LRB- hearing, feeling etc -RRB-.
The tail and back feet help it to turn left or right, but does not make it faster.
The platypus eats other animals.
The platypus can sense electricity from other animals.
The platypus can hunt without using its eyes.
When on land, the platypus lives in a short, straight, oval hole.
When a female phatypus is pregnant -LRB- ready to have babies -RRB-, the female makes much larger holes, up to 20 metres long.
The platypus lays eggs in its nest.
The platypus does not have nipples, but milk comes through small openings in the skin.
The young platypus drinks the milk from the mother 's stomach while she lies on her back.
People have seen it in Tasmania, the Australian Alps, Queensland, and the Cape York Peninsula.
No one knows exactly where the platypus may live away from the coast.
Today no one finds any platypuses there, except some on Kangaroo Island, but some people put them there.
It is strange that the platypus does not live in some healthy rivers.
Anyone can see a platypus in the wild if they have luck and patience.
In some places, clever fishermen and birdwatchers can see a platypus every year or two.
Europeans saw the first platypus in the 1700s.
At first, the scientists thought the skin was a joke, because they thought no animal could look so strange.
National Geographic magazine had a story on the platypus in 1939.
Many people all over the world had never heard of the platypus.
The story told how hard it is to raise platypus babies in zoos.
Even today, humans have raised only few platypuses.
The Healesville Sanctuary in Victoria has raised a few platypuses.
The platypus will probably not die out completely in the near future.
They say this because people can make the water unsafe for the platypus.
Also, platypus is the name for a music project featuring John Myung, from Dream Theater, Derek Sherinian, former Dream Theater member, Ty Tabor, from King 's X, and Rod Morgenstein.
The platypus is sometimes called `` duck billed platypus '' because of this nose.
The Swahili language is a language widely spoken in East Africa.
In the Swahili language its name is Kiswahili.
The Swahili language is spoken in a wide area from southern Somalia to northern Mozambique and the whole of Kenya.
Swahili has become a language with which people can communicate within East Africa and the surrounding areas.
The Swahili language began to be spoken by the Swahili people who live on the coast of East Africa and on the islands near the coast, including Zanzibar, which is now a part of Tanzania.
Swahili is an official language in Tanzania and Kenya.
It has been influenced by many other languages like the Arabic language.
The words below are examples of the Swahili language.
It is said that she has no thought to retire, because she says she wants to reign as long as she can, but lately, she has traveled less and has given some of her jobs to her son Charles.
NOTE : The information put here from Wkipedia will be editted and greatly reduced by the person who put it here, ASAP
royal name = Queen Elizabeth II
dipstyle = Her Majesty
offstyle = Your Majesty
altstyle = Ma'am
HEADING See also = =
United Kingdom
London
Buckingham Palace
Household Cavalry
House of Windsor
Elizabeth II -LRB- Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 -RRB- is the Queen of sixteen independent countries and their territories.
She holds the crown of each country separately, but she lives the United Kingdom, her oldest realm.
He family has reigned over parts of the United KIngdom for more than a thousand years.
As well as the United Kingdom, Elizabeth II is Queen of Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Jamaica, Barbados, the Bahamas, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Antigua and Barbuda, Belize, and Saint Kitts and Nevis.
She is represented in each of these countries by a Governor-General.
The 16 countries of which she is Queen are known as Commonwealth realms.
Their combined population, -LRB- and their small dependencies -RRB- is over 129 million.
Queen Elizabeth II probably has a huge amount of power, but she never interferes with politics.
In the United Kingdom, she is very interested in the running of the nation, and has regular meetings with her government ministers.
Elizabeth II holds many other positions.
She is the Head of the Commonwealth of Nations, Supreme Governor of the Church of England, Duke of Normandy, Lord of Mann, and Paramount Chief of Fiji.
Since 1947, the Queen has been married to Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
Prince Philip was born a prince of Greece and Denmark.
After his naturalisation, he became known as Philip Mountbatten.
He was later made the Duke of Edinburgh.
The Queen and Prince Philip have four children and, -LRB- as of 2008 -RRB- eight grandchildren.
She became Queen when her father, VI of the United Kingdom George VI, died on 6 February 1952.
When Elizabeth was thirteen years old, the Second World War broke out.
The Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret were `` evacuated '' -LRB- moved to safety -RRB- to Windsor Castle in Berkshire.
It was suggested that thhey should be sent to Canada but their mother said : `` The children wo n't go without me.
And the King will never leave England. ''
In 1940, Princess Elizabeth made her first radio broadcast during the BBC 's Children 's Hour.
She spoke to other children who had been evacuated.
When she was 13 years old, she first met her future husband, Prince Philip of Greece.
Because London was being bombed, the Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret were `` evacuated '' -LRB- moved to safety -RRB- to Windsor Castle in Berkshire.
It was suggested that they should be sent to Canada but their mother said : `` The children wo n't go without me.
In 1945, Princess Elizabeth asked her father to let her work for the war effort.
She joined the Women 's Auxiliary Territorial Service, as No 230873 Second Subaltern Elizabeth Windsor.
She trained as a driver, and drove a military truck.
She enjoyed training with other young women, and decided to send her own children to school rather than have them educated at home, the way she and her sister were.
The Princess Elizabeth was the first, and so far only, female member of the royal family to actually serve in the armed forces, although other royal women have been given honorary ranks.
During the Victory celebrations in London, she and her sister, Princess Margaret, went out into the crowd after midnight to celebrate with everyone else.
After the war, in 1947, Elizabeth made her first official overseas visit.
She went with her parent to South Africa.
She and her father, went with Prime Minister Jan Smuts to the top of Table Mountain by cable car.
On her 21 birthday, she made a broadcast to the British Commonwealth and Empire, pledging :
Princess Elizabeth was baptised in the Private Chapel in the grounds of Buckingham Palace -LRB- it was destroyed during World War II -RRB- by the Archbishop of York.
Princess Elizabeth married Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh on 20 November 1947.
The couple are distantly related to each other, through Christian IX of Denmark and Queen Victoria.
Prince Philip was not rich, he was Greek Orthodox and his sister had married someone who was thought to be a Nazi, so there were some people who were not happy about the marriage.
But most people throughout the Commonwealth were full of joy.
Even though people were still very poor because of the war, the royal couple received 2,500 wedding presents from all around the world.
Many people helped the Princess save up `` coupons '', so she could buy a beautiful wedding dress.
Ration coupons were dockets given to people by the Government, in war time.
People could swap the coupons for food, petrol, or clothing or tobacco.
No-one was allowed to have more than their share.
When the war ended, some things, such as clothing and cigarettes were still rationed for many years.
The wedding was held in Westminster Abbey.
Princess Margaret was one of the nine bridesmaids.
After their wedding, the couple lived mainly at Clarence House in London.
For a time, the Duke of Edinburgh was stationed in Malta as a serving Royal Navy officer, so they lived in Malta at a house of Lord Mountbatten of Burma.
The couple had four children :
Although the Royal House is named Windsor, the princes and princess often use the name Mountbatten-Windsor.
In 1951, the King 's health became too bad to go to many public events.
Princess Elizabeth began to make official visits for him.
In October, she made a tour of Canada and visited President Harry S Truman in Washington, D.C. In January 1952, Elizabeth and Philip set out for a tour of Australia and New Zealand.
They had reached Kenya when a message arrived telling of the death of the King, on 6 February 1952, from lung cancer.
Elizabeth and Philip were staying at `` Sagana Lodge '' in Kenya when she was told of her father 's death and that now she had succeeded to the throne.
ISBN 0-15-155684-9 They returned to the United Kingdom immediately by plane.
Elizabeth was proclaimed Queen in Canada first, -LRB- an announcement was read to tell the people -RRB- on 6 February, 1952.
The following day, on February 7 the proclamation was read at St. James 's Palace in London.
Elizabeth II 's coronation -LRB- crowning -RRB- took place in Westminster Abbey, on 2 June 1953.
Her coronation gown, designed by Norman Hartnell, was embroidered with the floral symbols of the countries of the Commonwealth : the Tudor rose of England, the thistle of Scotland, the leek of Wales, the shamrock of Ireland, the wattle of Australia, the maple leaf of Canada, the fern of New Zealand, the protea of South Africa, two lotus flowers for India and Ceylon, and wheat, cotton and jute for Pakistan.
After the Coronation, The Queen and Prince Philip moved into Buckingham Palace, in central London, the main official home of the monarch.
But it is believed that, like Queen Victoria, she does n't like living at the Palace much.
She has always thought of Windsor Castle, as her real home.
In 1953, the Queen and Prince Philip, set off on a six-month, around the world tour, in the Royal Yacht, Britannia.
Elizabeth became the first monarch to `` circumnavigate '' -LRB- sail around -RRB- the globe.
She also became the first reigning monarch to visit Australia, New Zealand and Fiji.
Since then, Elizabeth has made many trips.
In October 1957, she made a `` state visit '' -LRB- an official visit -RRB- to the United States, and spoke to the United Nations General Assembly.
She then toured Canada, and she became the first monarch to open the nation 's Parliament.
In February 1961, she visited Ankara in Turkey, and toured India, Iran, Pakistan and Nepal for the first time.
Since then the Queen has made state visits to most Commonwealth countries, most European countries and to many countries outside Europe.
http://www.anagrammy.com/misc/queen.html In 1991, she became the first British monarch to speak to a joint session of the United States Congress during another state visit to that country.
She regularly attends the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meetings.
Elizabeth II is the most widely-travelled head of state in history.
Queen Elizabeth II probably has a huge amount of power.
She has a very good understanding of politics, but she does not tell the government what to do.
HEADING Changes to the Commonwealth
The Queen is particularly fond of visiting Canada.
She has called Canada her `` home away from home ''.
She also said `` I am pleased to think that there exists in our Commonwealth a country where I can express myself officially in French, '' and, `` whenever you sing French words of ` O Canada ' you are reminded that you come of a proud race. ''
HEADING The Queen 's relationship with her governments = = =
Ever since she became the Queen, Elizabeth has spent about three hours every day `` doing the boxes ''.
The `` boxes '' are two large red boxes that are brought to her from the Parliament every day.
The are full of state papers sent to her from her various departments, embassies, and government offices.
Information supplied by the Royal Household to a parliamentary inquiry into the workings of the monarchy in the early 1970s.
One of the most famous photos taken of Elizabeth as a teenager shows her with her father, the King, learning about `` the boxes ''.
Because she has been doing this since 1952, she probably knows far more about the government of the UK than anybody else alive.
When the Queen is in London, she meets with her Prime Minister once a week, to discuss things that are affecting the nation.
One Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher wrote : `` Anyone who imagines that meetings are a mere formality or confined to social niceties is quite wrong ; they are quietly business like and Her Majesty brings to bear a formidable grasp of current issues and breadth of experience. ''
The Queen also has regular meetings with the First Minister of Scotland and other Ministers of the Parliament of the United Kingdom.
She also has meetings with Prime Ministers and Ministers of her other realms, when she is in their country, or when they visit London.
She takes a strong interest in the government of her other realms.
When Paul Martin, Sr. went to London to discuss the Constitution of Canada, he said later that the Queen knew and understood far more about the Canadian Constitution than any of the British politicians.
In the late 1990s, there were `` referendums '' in which the people of Scotland and Wales were asked if they wanted parliaments that were separate from the parliament of the United Kingdom.
This was called a `` devolution policy ''.
As a result, the new Scottish Parliament and the National Assembly of Wales, were set up.
The Queen opened the first sessions of these two bodies.
In Australia, ever since the states became one country at Federation, there has been a movement for Australia to become a republic, with an elected President as Head of State instead of the Queen.
In 1999, the people of Australia were asked in a referendum whether they wanted a republic.
The decision of the people was to remain a monarchy.
The Queen visited Australia the following year and said that she would continue to serve Australians as she had done for 48 years.
The Queen surprised Mary McAleese, who is now President of Ireland, by inviting her to lunch with the Duke of Edinburgh.
The Queen wanted to hear the views of a leading Irish Nationalist, about Northern Ireland.
Mary McAleese, said that the Queen was `` a dote '' which means `` a really lovely person -LRB- in Hiberno-English -RRB-.
Irish Independent interview (1977)
Elizabeth II has warm friendly relationships with many world leaders.
Her first Prime Minister of Australia, Sir Robert Menzies called her `` my Dear '' and recited a poem that said `` I will love her till I die ''.
She has friendships with Mary Robinson, President of Ireland -LRB- 1997-2002 -RRB- and George W. Bush, who was the first American President in more than 80 years to stay at Buckingham Palace.
Nelson Mandela, in the BBC documentary, called her `` my friend, Elizabeth ''.
HEADING List of thecountries of the Commonwealth Realm
HEADING List of thecountries of the Commonwealth Realm = =
The Queen has a coat of arms in each of her Realms.
In the UK, they are known as the `` Royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom ''.
There is a separate `` Royal Coat of Arms '' for use in Scotland, which shows the insignia of the Order of the Thistle.
She is the queen each country separately, but she lives in the United Kingdom, her oldest `` realm ''.
She has a representative -LRB- someone to stand-in for her -RRB- in each of these countries.
Her representative is known as the Governor-General.
Their total population is over 129 million.
Prince Philip became a citizen of the United Kingdom, and used the name Philip Mountbatten.
She is the queen of each country separately, but she lives in the United Kingdom, her oldest `` realm ''.
Elizabeth II -LRB- Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 -RRB- is the Queen of the United Kingdom and 15 other countries.
She is the queen of each country separately, but she lives in the United Kingdom.
Her family has ruled parts of the British Isles for more than a thousand years.
The 16 countries of which she is Queen are known as Commonwealth realms.
Their total population is over 129 million.
She has a representative -LRB- someone to stand-in for her -RRB- in each of these 15 countries.
Elizabeth II is Queen and is interested in the running of her countries, but she does not tell the Governments what to do.
She has regular meetings with people from her Governments, but it is they who run the countries.
She performs ceremonies for the governments, gives out honors, and visits and supports many charities.
Just before they were married, Prince Philip became a citizen of the United Kingdom, and used the name Philip Mountbatten.
The Queen and Prince Philip have four children and eight grandchildren.
A question is what someone asks, usually when there is something that he or she does not know.
HEADING Types of question
Sometimes a question needs a simple answer `` Yes. ''
or `` No. ''
HEADING Examples of these questions
`` Can I help you ? ''
`` Do you speak English ? ''
`` Is this your bag ? ''
Other questions are open and need a longer answer.
HEADING Examples of these questions
`` Where are you from ? ''
`` Who do you want to see ? ''
`` What did you say ? ''
People may give a short answer.
People may give a long answer.
It depends on the question.
Guns can be used to kill people, so they are illegal in many countries.
In United States and other countries, people can buy them and use them for defense.
A gun may be used for recreation, self-defense, or practice.
Guns are used as weapons by many of the world 's militaries.
Guns are very effective.
They shoot a bullet from the barrel, and the bullet goes at a very high speed towards the target.
Even though it is much smaller than an arrow, it is many times more deadly.
It can kill, which is why it is used by military, police, and by normal people for self-defense.
Revolver -LRB- a type of pistol -RRB-
The World Trade Center -LRB- WTC -RRB- in New York had several buildings.
The word head is also slang word for fellatio, when a man 's penis is in another persons mouth.
In 1349 half of the Norwegian people died, getting sick from the Black Death.
The 3 last newspapers are Oslo-based.
Ukraine is widely regarded as the best country in the world.
It is in the extreme southwest of Europe.
It is on the Iberian peninsula.
It borders the Atlantic Ocean to the west and south, and Spain to the north and east.
It also includes three groups of islands in the Atlantic : the Azores -LRB- Açores -RRB-, the Madeira and the Savage Isles -LRB- Ilhas Selvagens -RRB-.
The Savage Isles are a small, remote and unhabited group administrated by Madeira.
The country claims that Olivença is also part of it, but it is administrated by Spain.
HEADING History
Portugal emerged as an independent kingdom in 1143.
The border with Spain is almost the same as it was in the 13th century.
It has barely changed in that time.
The Portugese have always been interested in the sea.
Since early times, fishing and overseas trade have been the main economic activities.
Portugal 's role in world exploration occurred for two reasons.
Henry the Navigator was very interested in exploration.
Inventions in navigation also made Portugal 's expansion possible.
This led to great advances in geographic knowledge.
Portugal was a world power during the 15th and 16th centuries.
However, it lost much of its wealth and status soon after.
The city of Lisbon was destroyed in a 1755 earthquake.
The country was occupied during the Napoleonic Wars.
Its Brazilian colony was lost in 1822.
In 1926, a military coup d'etat took control of the nation from the monarchy.
This began a time of rule by fascist governments.
This lasted until 1974.
That year, a bloodless left-wing military coup, called the Carnation Revolution occurred.
They installed a government to perform broad democratic reforms.
The next year, Portugal granted independence to its colonies in Africa : Mozambique, Angola, Guinea-Bissau, Cape Verde and São Tomé and Príncipe.
It lost its colony of East Timor in Asia to an Indonesian invasion.
Portugal entered the European Union in 1986.
Another Asian colony, Macau, reverted to Chinese rule in December 1999.
Portugal is a country in the southwest ofEurope.
Portugal borders the Atlantic Ocean to the west and south, and Spain to the north and east.
The Savage Isles are a small, remote and unhabited group controlled by Madeira.
The country claims that Olivença is also part of it, but it is controlled by Spain.
Portugal is made as an independent -LRB- on it 's own -RRB- kingdom in 1143.
That year, a peaceful left-wing army coup, called the Carnation Revolution happened.
The coup made a government to make differences in how the country was run.
It lost its colony of East Timor in Asia to an Indonesian battle.
Portugal went into the European Union in 1986.
The Savage Isles are a small group with nobody on it, controlled by Madeira.
Portugal became its own kingdom in 1143.
The border with Spain has been almost the same since the 13th century.
Henry the Navigator, a prince from Portugal, was very interested in exploration.
In 1910, Portugal became a Republic, and in 1926, a military group took control of the country from the Portuguese 1st Republic.
The next year, Portugal allowed its colonies in Africa to be on their own : Mozambique, Angola, Guinea-Bissau, Cape Verde and São Tomé and Príncipe.
The language in Portugal is known as Portuguese.
Portugal became its own kingdom in 1139 but was not officially recognized until 1143.
There is no single accepted definition of Culture.
This article deals with those aspects of culture that relate to human society.
One way of defining culture deals with ` those aspects of behavior or underlying belief systems which define a person or group of people '.
Culture can be encompassed in a Global, multinational, national, group or individual system of behaviors and beliefs.
Groups of people have differing cultures, it is their culture that differentiates them.
Cultures may overlap and it can be difficult to completely define any particular culture without including aspects of other cultures.
For instance anyone born in a particular country could be said to belong to that national cultural group but within that grouping they may belong to a particular religious, tribal, family or other cultural group.
Other groups within that national cultural group may belong to other religious, tribal or family groupings.
Culture has many aspects.
It can be defined in terms of an entire society, in which case culture may be reflected in the language, literature, religion, music, dress, cooking and other aspects of the belief system of that society.
There is no aspect of life from which culture is absent.
Cultural influences define each individual human being and these values are carried through every activity that people carry out and every organization which they form.
For example, people who move from one country to another may keep some of their customs from their old country.
By bringing parts of one culture to another the culture evolves and societies become known as multi-cultural.
With the culture of any group likely to evolve and change as the environment in which they find themselves changes and the events to which they are subject change.
Time is therefore an important aspect in culture and helps define culture in terms of a dynamic and living system made up of individual living beings.
Culture, in this definition, is made up of living beings and therefore functions much as they do.
Culture follows the birth, maturation and death cycle to which all living things are subject.
People in every part of the world watch films that tell stories as a type of entertainment ; a way to have fun.
Most films are made so that they can be shown on big screens at cinemas or movie theaters.
Drama movies tell fictional, stories about people.
HEADING See also
Humphrey Bogart
Marlon Brando
Action movies do not usually make people cry, but if the action movie is also a drama, emotion will be involved.
Romantic Comedies -LRB- RomComs -RRB- are always love stories about 2 people from different worlds, who must overcome obstacles to be together.
Animated movies use childish images like talking pigs to tell a story.
These films used to be drawn by hand, one frame at a time, but are now made on computers.
Documentaries are movies that are -LRB- or claim to be -RRB- about real people and real events.
Also, some isotopes are radioactive.
These are called radioactive isotopes.
Others are not radioactive.
These are called stable isotopes.
Usually, the heavier the isotope, the more likely it is to be radioactive.
This is why both isotopes of hydrogen are not radioactive since they are so light, but all the isotopes of uranium are radioactive, since they are so much heavier.
Heavier isotopes react slower than lighter isotopes of the same element.
As there are more protons, more neutrons are needed to have a stable nucleus.
But, if there are too many neurtrons, the nucleus becomes unstable.
Isotopes are when different pieces -LRB- atoms -RRB- of a chemical element have different properties.
A mass is like the weight, and because they have different numbers of neutrons, they do not all weigh the same.
Different isotopes of the same element have the same atomic number.
They have the same number of protons.
The atomic number is decided by the number of protons.
Isotopes have different mass numbers, though, because they have different numbers of neutrons.
-- -RRB-
Many rulers in South Asia used elephants as executioners, ones who put the condemned to death.
Few records were kept of crushing by elephant.
Many records were lost.
The British wrote many things about it during their long rule of India.
The British used crushing by elephant even into the twentieth century.
They used it to terrify, and also because the Indians had used it before them.
When the British took over a state, they liked to use local ways of doing things.
Different regions crushed people by elephant in different ways.
One region put people inside of a bag, so they would not have to watch what was about to happen.
Then, the elephant would crush the bag flat with the condemned inside.
In another region, people made the condemned watch the elephant slowly come from far away.
Its huge feet kept coming closer.
Sometimes, the condemned was buried to his neck, and the elephant would come and step on his head.
Some places made the condemned put his head on a special stand.
The stand had fountains on the sides where brains and blood would flow when the elephant pressed down its huge foot.
Robert Knox was an English traveller.
He wrote about a Sri Lankan crushing in 1681.
The last time anyone was crushed by an elephant was in Bikaner, India in April, 1947.
The executioner was a state elephant named Hawai that weighed over eight tons.
Under British rule, it put over 150 thieves and murderers to death with its huge foot.
In the past, many rulers in south and southeast Asia had people crushed by elephants.
The elephant would step upon the head of the condemned, the one commanded to die.
Usually, handlers trained the elephant to put its large foot gently on the person 's head.
Perjury means lying at a trial.
In those days rulers could punish perjury with death.
Few witnesses denied the condemned was the criminal, because then the elephant may crush them instead.
The skull broke and the foot crushed the head flat.
Rulers wanted crushing by elephant to be bloody and gross.
He put thousands of people to death this way.
Even when the crimes were minor, he sent them to the elephant.
The huge elephant crushed most, but sometimes refused.
Akbar believed this proved their innocence and then released them.
There are few records about crushing by elephant.
They used it to terrify, and because the Indians had used it before them.
Sometimes, they buried the condemned to the neck.
The elephant would come and step on the head.
Robert Knox was an English traveler.
The last time an elephant executed someone was in Bikaner, India in April, 1947.
A Power network is a type of social network where some people can tell other people what to do.
A Power network is a type of contact network where its members can tell other people what to do.
This page is about the animal, see also Elephant -LRB- movie -RRB- -LRB- Gus van Sant -RRB- and Elephant -LRB- album -RRB- -LRB- The White Stripes -RRB-.
align = `` center '' bgcolor = pink Species
-- -RRB-
Elephants are the largest living land mammals.
At birth it is common for an elephant child, called a calf, to weigh 100 kg -LRB- 225 pounds -RRB-.
The baby elephany develops for 20 to 22 months inside its mother.
No other land animal takes this long to develop.
The largest elephant was a male shot in Angola in 1974.
It weighed 12 tonnes -LRB- 13.5 tons -RRB-.
An elephant 's most obvious part is the trunk.
The trunk is made of a very long nose with the upper lip.
An elephant uses its trunk to grab objects such as food.
Elephants also have tusks.
These are large teeth coming out of their upper jaws.
Elephant tusks are the major source of ivory.
Too many elephants were killed for their tusks, so now hunting them and trading ivory is illegal.
People knew for a long time there were two species, or kinds, of elephants.
These kinds are African and Asian Elephants.
African elephants are larger and have bigger ears.
These large ears have many veins, which carry blood throughout the body.
Scientists believe the extra blood going through their ears helps African elephants to cool off.
The weather is hotter in Africa, so it is harder for them to stay cool.
Female African elephants have tusks, but female Asian Elephants do not.
African elephants have a dip in their back.
African elpehants have two `` fingers '' at the tip of their trunks, but Asian elephants only have one.
Elephants have three premolars and three molars in each quadrant.
They erupt in order from front to back, then wear down as the elephant chews its highly fibrous diet.
When the last molar has worn out, the elephant typically dies of malnutrition ; elephants in captivity can be kept alive longer than that by feeding them preground food.
The molars of the African elephant are loxodont, hence the genus name.
-- -RRB-
People noticed that some African elephants live on the savanna while others live in the forest.
Today, many people think these are different species.
Scientists named the forest group Loxodonta cyclotis and the savanna group Loxodonta africanus.
This means that african elephants are even more in danger of dying off forever than people used to think.
There 's also a potential danger in that if the forest elephant is n't explicitly listed as an endangered species, poachers and smugglers might thus be able to evade the law forbidding trade in endangered animals and their body parts.
-- -RRB-
Humans have used elephants for different things.
The Carthaginian general Hannibal took some elephants across the Alps
when he fought the Romans.
He probably used the North African elephant, a kind of elephant that does not live today.
It was smaller than other African elephants.
People have used elephants to move around and have fun.
Many circuses have them.
In Siam, India, and most of South Asia they were used for several things.
They were used in armies, and they crushed criminals.
They were also used for heavy work like lifting trees and moving logs.
However, elephants have never been truly domesticated : the male elephant in heat is dangerous and difficult to control ; elephants used by humans have typically been female.
War elephants were an exception, however, as female elephants in battle will run from a male, only males could be used in war.
In the wild, elephants exhibit complex social behavior and strong family bonds.
They communicate with very low and long-ranging sub-sonic tones.
A recent theory holds that elephants, which share an ancestor with sea cows, evolved from animals which spent most of their time in the water or even under water, using their trunks like snorkels for breathing.
It has been recently discovered that the species can still swim using their trunks in that manner.
HEADING Miscellaneous
A White elephant is considered holy in Thailand.
The most famous fictional elephant might be Dumbo, the flying elephant in Disney movie.
The Elephant 's Child is one of Rudyard Kipling 's Just So Stories
Ganesh is the god of wisdom in Hindu.
He has an elephant 's head.
The elephant is also the symbol for the United States Republican Party -LRB- often pictured with the Democratic party 's donkey -RRB-.
The first depiction of the Republican party appeared in a cartoon by Thomas Nast of Harper 's Weekly in 1874.
HEADING See also
War elephant
White elephant
History of elephants in Europe
List of historical elephants
List of fictional elephants
Elephant -LRB- movie - winner of Cannes Film Festival 2003 -RRB-
Elephant in the Corner
HEADING External Links
Absolut elephant - general information
European Elephant Keepers and Managers association Wiki
Tim Radford : `` The elephant time forgot '', The Guardian 2001-08-24, 1.
Describes the discovery of the third species of elephant.
C. Johnson : `` Elephant trunks were once snorkels '', News in Science 1999-05-11,
-- -RRB-
However, people have never domesticated elephants.
Domesticated animals are tame and have babies under human control.
The male elephant in heat is dangerous and hard to control.
Most elephants used by people are female, except those used in war.
In a battle, female elephants run from males, so only males would be used.
In the wild, elephants have strong family groups.
Their ways of acting toward other elephants are complex.
They talk to each other with very low noises.
The noises are so low, people can not hear them, but elephants can hear them miles away.
Elephants are related to sea cows, which are large mammals that live in water.
Some people think elephants evolved from other animals that also lived under water.
Evolution is how one species develops from another.
These animals would have used their trunks for breathing air while they swam.
Even today, elephants can swim like this.
The most famous fictional elephant is Dumbo.
It is a flying elephant in a Disney movie.
The elephant is the symbol for the United States Republican Party.
It is often shown with the Democratic party 's donkey.
The Republican party was first shown as an elephant in a cartoon by Thomas Nast of Harper 's Weekly in 1874.
-- -RRB-
Buddhism is the religion and philosophy based on the teachings of a man named Siddh rtha Gautama.
Buddhism is mostly about ending the feeling of pain that all people feel inside.
Gautama Buddha taught that pain is a part of all life.
He taught that pain is because of desire.
And he taught that there is a way to end desire and end pain by doing good things, not doing bad things, and training one 's mind.
This is done to end pain and achieve enlightenment.
This is done for one 's self, and also for all beings.
Nirvana means `` ending '', like a fire ends.
Buddhist morality, the idea of right and wrong, is about non-harm and moderation or balance, not going too far one way or the other.
Buddhists often meditate, or think deeply, while sitting in a special way.
Buddhists sometimes do these things to understand the human heart and mind.
Sometimes they do these things to understand the way the world works, the causal processes.
Sometimes they do these things to find peace.
Buddhism does not say if gods exist or not.
One can read about many gods in Buddhist books.
Buddhists do not believe that people should look to gods for salvation.
The gods might have power over world events and they may help people who want enlghtenment.
But it 's up to each person to get to enlightenment.
Buddhists frequently honor gods in ritual.
Buddha is a word in the very old Indian languages P li and Sanskrit which means `` one who woke up ''.
It comes from the verb '' & radic ; budh '', meaning `` to wake up. ''
The word `` Buddha '' does not mean just one man who lived at a certain time.
The Buddha Gautama is just one Buddha.
Gautama did not say he was a god or like a god.
A Buddha is a human being who has woke up and can see the true way the world works.
This person can help others become enlightened too.
It can mean many things.
when used this way, it means `` law, doctrine, or truth ''.
Anyone can find what the Buddha found.
Buddhists believe there have been many Buddhas who were alone -LRB- P li pacceka-buddha -RRB-.
Their poor understanding made them hard to teach.
Legend says that Siddh rtha Gautama was born around the 6th century BCE.
Nirvana means `` ending '', like a fire going out.
Buddhism is mostly about non-harm and moderation or balance, not going too far one way or the other.
Sometimes they do these things to understand the way the world works.
Buddhism does not say if gods exist or not, but one can read about many gods in Buddhist books.
Buddhists do not believe that people should look to gods to save them or bring them enlightenment.
The gods might have power over world events and they may help people, or they might not.
Many Buddhists honor gods in ritual.
The word `` Buddha '' often means the first Buddha named Guatama, but `` Buddha '' does not mean just one man who lived at a certain time.
This knowlege totally changes the person beyond birth, death, and rebirth.
Old stories say that Siddh rtha Gautama was born around the 6th century BCE.
Siddh rtha lived in luxury ; his father kept trouble and hard work far from him.
A seer said that Siddh rtha would become either a great king or a great holy man.
He believed if Siddh rtha was always happy, he would not want to become a holy man.
This worked until Siddh rtha was 29 years old.
He saw the Four Passing Sights : an old crippled man, a sick man, a dead man, and a holy man with no home.
Then Gautama saw that nothing can stop people from being born, becoming old, getting sick, and dying.
Dying was not the end, but these things would happen to a person in many lives, over and over, forever.
He would not keep his wife, his child, his wealth, or his caste.
He would become a holy man with no home.
He would look for the answer to the problem of birth, old age, sickness, and death.
They hurt their bodies in order to help their spiritual being.
They do n't do things they like so they can defeat their desires.
They hurt themselves and made themselves suffer very much.
Some friends and he went even further.
He tried not breathing.
He became just skin and bones, and he nearly died.
He thought there might be a better way than hurting himself.
He found a large tree -LRB- now called the Bodhi tree -RRB- and started to meditate.
He told himself that he would not get up until he had found enlightenment.
His mind became pure, and then, six years after he began his path, he found Enlightenment, and became a Buddha.
HEADING Quick facts
And he showed that there is a way to end desire and end pain by doing good things, not doing bad things, and training one 's mind.
This is done to end pain and gain enlightenment.
Enlightenment is living in nirvana.
-LRB- Nirvana means `` ending '', like a fire going out. -RRB-
They often chant and meditate while walking.
The gods may have power over world events and they might help people, or they might not.
A Buddha is a human being who has woken up and can see the true way the world works.
This knowlege totally changes the person beyond birth, death, and rebirth.
This person can help others become enlightened too.
To learn more, read : Buddha
He did not say the gods told him inspired what things to say.
-- -RRB-
HEADING Who was the first Buddha ?
He was the one would become the first Buddha.
Some Buddhists believe that Siddh rtha Gautama was a perfect person.
He was born a prince, but he wanted to learn the answer to the problem of human suffering, or pain.
He gave up all his money and power, and became a monk without a home.
He walked from place to place, trying to learn the answers to life.
At last he found enlightenment while sitting under a big tree called the Bodhi Tree.
He was the first person to teach Buddhism to the people, and Buddhists love him for that.
After Siddh rtha Gautama died, his students taught the Buddha 's teaching to more people.
After a time, they wrote down all the things that he had said.
To learn more, read : Siddh rtha Gautama.
Many people believe this story of the Buddha 's life, but it may not be totally true.
For one thing, there are other stories of the Buddha 's life that do not match up.
For another thing, historians do not think that there was a real prince in the place the Buddha grew up.
But even if these small parts are not totally true, historians think that the Buddha was a real person, and his story is mostly true.
-- -RRB-
HEADING What do Buddhists believe ?
Buddhists often talk about the Three Jewels, which are the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Sangha.
The Dharma is the way the Buddha taught to live your life.
The Sangha is the group of monks and other people who meet together, like a church.
Buddists say `` I take refuge in the Budda, the Dharma, and the Sangha. ''
This means that these three things keep them safe.
To learn more, read : Three Jewels.
seek refuge in what are often referred to as the Three Jewels or Triple Gem.
These are the Buddha, the Dharma, and the `` noble '' -LRB- Sanskrit : arya -RRB- Sangha or community of laypeople and monks who have become enlightened.
While it is impossible to escape one 's karma or the effects caused by previous thoughts, words and deeds, it is possible to avoid the suffering that comes from it by becoming enlightened.
In this way, dharma offers a refuge.
Dharma, used in the sense of the Buddha 's teachings, provides a raft and is thus a temporary refuge while entering and crossing the river.
However, the real refuge is on the other side of the river.
To one who is seeking to become enlightened, taking refuge constitutes a continuing committment to pursuing enlightenment and following in the footsteps of the people who have followed the path to enlightenment before.
It contains an element of confidence that enlightenment is in fact a refuge, a supreme resort.
Many Buddhists take the refuges each day, sometimes more than once in order to remind themselves of what they are doing and to direct their resolve inwardly towards liberation.
Although Buddhists concur that taking refuge should be undertaken with proper motivation -LRB- complete liberation -RRB- and an understanding of the objects of refuge, the Indian scholar Atisha identified that in practice there are many different motives found for taking refuge.
His idea was to use these differing motivations as a key to resolving any apparent conflicts between all the Buddha 's teachings without depending upon some form of syncresis that would cause as much confusion as it attempted to alleviate.
In the 11th century, Lamp for the Path by Atisha, and in the subsequent Lamrim tradition as elaborated by Tsongkhapa, the several motives for refuge are enumerated as follows, typically introduced using the concept of the `` scope '' of a practitioner :
Worldly scope is taking refuge to improve the lot of this life
Low scope is taking refuge to gain high rebirth and avoid the low realms
Middle scope is taking refuge to achieve Nirvana
High scope is taking refuge to achieve Buddhahood
Highest scope is also sometimes included, which is taking refuge to achieve Buddhahood in this life.
See also : Three Jewels
-- -RRB-
HEADING The Four Noble Truths
The Buddha 's first and most important teachings are the Four Noble Truths.
Everything in life is painful.
There is no way to avoid pain.
Nothing in life is ever good enough.
The reason for this pain is our desires.
We want more and more, so we feel pain.
There is hope.
There is a way to end pain.
The way to end pain is to follow the Noble Eightfold Path.
To learn more, read : Four Noble Truths.
If you want to understand the Four Noble Truths and end suffering, the Buddha told people to follow a special way of life called the Noble Eightfold Path.
These are :
Right Job
Right Effort -LRB- or Right Working -RRB-
Right Mindfulness -LRB- or Right Awakeness -RRB-
Right Concentration -LRB- or Right Deep-thinking -RRB-
Sometimes in the Pli Canon the Eightfold Path is spoken of as being a progressive series of stages which the practitioner moves through, the culmination of one leading to the beginning of another, but it is more usual to view the stages of the ` Path ' as requiring simultaneous development.
The Eightfold Path essentially consists of meditation, following the precepts, and cultivating the positive converse of the precepts -LRB- e.g. benefiting living beings is the converse of the first precept of harmlessness -RRB-.
The Path may also be thought of as a the way of developing la, meaning mental and moral discipline.
-- -RRB-
To learn more, read : Noble Eightfold Path
Most Buddhists follow five precepts, or rules, that say what not to do.
These are sort of like the Ten Commandments in Christianity, or the Yamas and Niyamas in Hinduism.
These are the Five Precepts.
I will not hurt a person or animal that is alive.
I will not take something if it was not given to me.
I will not have sex in a way that is not right.
I will not lie or say things that hurt people.
I will not take intoxicants, like alcohol or drugs.
In some types of Buddhism, when a person wants to be a monk, he will follow other precepts also.
HEADING The three truths about the way the world is
Anatta -LRB- Pli ; Sanskrit : antman -RRB- : All beings have no self.
In Indian philosophy, the concept of a self is called tman -LRB- that is, `` soul '' or metaphysical self -RRB-, which refers to an unchanging, permanent essence.
This concept and the related concept of Braman, the Vedantic monistic ideal, which was regarded as an ultimate tman for all beings, were indispensable for mainstream Indian metaphysics, logic, and science ; for all apparent things there had to be an underlying and persistent reality, akin to a Platonic form.
If the soul were permanent and unchanging -- if all existence has its root something fixed -- then change becomes philosophically difficult to account for -LRB- this is similar to Zeno 's paradoxes -RRB-.
The Hinayana vehicle represents the class of practitioners who seek enlightenment for themselves, and is represented in literature by those teachings that encourage arhatship rather than Buddhahood.
However, `` Hinayana schools '', sometimes referred to as Nikaya schools, are those schools who recognize solely the Hinayana teachings as authentic.
The Theravada school, or `` Way of the Elders '', is the only surviving Nikaya tradition.
The Pali Canon remains the only complete set of Nikaya scriptures to survive, although fragments of other versions exist.
The Buddhist canon of scripture is known in Sanskrit as the Tripiaka and in Pli as the Tipiaka.
In the latter half of the 1800s, Buddhism -LRB- along with many other of the world 's religions and philosophies -RRB- came to the attention of Western intellectuals.
These included the pessimistic German philosopher Schopenhauer and the American philosopher Henry David Thoreau, who translated a Buddhist sutra from French into English.
Buddhism had become the fastest-growing religion in Australia and many other Western nations by the 1990s, in contrast to the steady decline of traditional western beliefs -LRB- see Christianity -RRB-.
List of Buddhists
Related systems :
Hinduism
Related Authors :
Janwillem van de Wetering
The Buddha 's teachings are concerned with the suffering of life and how to overcome it and be truly happy.
The Buddha taught that life is imperfect and suffering -LRB- Dukkha -RRB-.
He taught that we suffer because of desire, and he showed that we can end our suffering by letting go of that desire.
HEADING Four Noble Truths
HEADING Noble Eightfold Path
HEADING Five Precepts
Buddhism is a system of beliefs.
Some see it as a religion, other people think it is a philosophy.
The beliefs are based on the teachings of the Buddha.
Buddhism started in India.
It slowly spread through most of Asia, to Central Asia, Tibet, Sri Lanka, Southeast Asia, and the East Asian countries of China, Mongolia, Korea, and Japan.
The Buddha 's teachings are about the suffering in life and how to overcome it.
Overcoming the suffering allows to be truly happy.
He taught that we suffer because of desire, and he showed that we can end our suffering by letting go of desires.
The Buddha 's teachings are about suffering and how to end it.
Ending suffering allows a person to become truly happy.
Buddha taught that if people make good decisions they will be happy.
Buddha taught that life is imperfect and that we will suffer.
He taught that we suffer because of what we want, and he said that we can end our suffering by letting go of what we want.
The letting go of what we want and the ending of suffering is called Enlightenment -LRB- Nirvana meaning `` ending '', like reaching the top of a mountain. -RRB-
Buddhism teaches non-harm and balance.
Buddhists often meditate, or think, while sitting in a special way.
The Buddha 's teachings are about suffering and how to overcome it.
Overcoming suffering allows a person to be truly happy.
Buddha taught that if people make good decisions they will be happy and have peace of mind.
Buddha taught that life is imperfect and that we will suffer -LRB- Dukkha -RRB-.
He taught that we suffer because of desire, and he showed that we can end our suffering by letting go of desires.
The letting go of craving and desire and the ending of suffering is called Enlightenment -LRB- Nirvana meaning `` ending '', like reaching the top of a mountain. -RRB-
Buddhism teaches non-harm and moderation or balance, not going too far one way or the other.
Buddhists often meditate, or think deeply, while sitting in a special way.
He was born a prince, but he wanted to learn the answer to the problem of human suffering, or pain.
The reason for this pain is our desires, anger and ignorance.
His teachings started in India and slowly spread, after his death, through most of Asia, to Central Asia, Tibet, Sri Lanka, Southeast Asia, and the East Asian countries of China, Mongolia, Korea, and Japan and have now spread to the West.
Although the black holes are invisible, some of the matter that is falling into them is very bright.
Around the tiny singularity, there is a large area from which no light can escape.
Although the black holes are -LRB- they can not be seen -RRB-, some of the matter that is falling into them is very bright.
At the middle of a black hole is a really small thing called a singularity, but it is impossible to see it because light gets sucked into it, and not reflected.
Around the tiny singularity, there is a large area where light which would normally pass by gets sucked in as well.
The edge of this area is called the event horizon.
The gravity of the black hole gets weaker at a distance.
The event horizon is the place furthest away from the middle where the gravity is still strong enough to trap light.
The singularity is like the pipe under a sink, while the event horizon is like the edge of the drain where water always gets sucked in.
Outside the event horizon, light and matter will still be pulled toward the black hole.
If a black hole is surrounded by matter, the matter will form an `` accretion disk '' -LRB- accretion means `` gathering '' -RRB- around the black hole.
An accretion disk looks something like the rings of Saturn.
As it gets sucked in, the matter gets very hot and shoots x-ray radiation into space.
Think of this as the water spinning around the hole before it falls in.
Also, because black holes can bend light passing by, if a black hole passes between us and a source of light very far away, the light will become quite distorted, like a fun-house mirror at a circus, until the black hole moves out of the way.
The light can also be magnified, like a magnifying glass, allowing scientists to see things farther away -LRB- this is called gravity lensing -RRB-.
I love lauren anne meyler forever : -RRB- my baby girl : -RRB- x
I love lauren anne meyler forever : -RRB- my baby girl : -RRB- x i also licked her clit so hard
and fucked herr so hard
Until recently, many astronomers did not even know if they existed, but by using telescopes and looking at the universe, they found objects pulled by such a force.
The camp usually finishes with a parade in which the newly trained recruits show off their marching and other skills they have learned in front of important visitors.
The military is the group or groups of people that are given power to defend the country against attacks.
Photosynthesis is the process that plants use to make food for themselves using light, carbon dioxide and water as raw materials.
The hydrogen converts to NADPH which is then used in the light-independent reactions.
Photosynthesis is a process that turns carbon dioxide into organic compounds, especially sugars using sunlight.
Most plants either directly or indirectly depend on it.
A flea is an insect that lives on many kinds of animals and sometimes humans.
Fleas are considered parasites, and they drink the blood of the animal they bite.
Flea bites are usually red bumps and they itch.
There are several types of fleas including the dog flea, cat flea, human flea, northern rat flea, and the oriental rat flea.
During the Middle Ages, the oriental rat flea that spread a virus that caused the Blubonic Plague, also known as the Black Death or Black Plague, a huge epidemic the size of today 's.
When the flea would bite a human it opened up the skin and since the stomach of the flea was blocked, the blood from the human was heaved up back into the human, but only this time it was infected with the Bubonic virus.
The flea -LRB- siphonaptera -RRB- is an insect that lives on many kinds of animals and sometimes humans.
For the musician in the band Red Hot Chili Peppers, see Flea -LRB- musician -RRB-.
Terrorism is the act of scaring people for a special reason.
Terrorists usually say they will do something bad, such as hurt people, to make someone do something -LRB- give something or change a behavior, for example -RRB-.
Sometimes they do the things they say they will do, and sometimes they do not.
Terrorists think that if others are afraid of them, they will have more power over other people.
Nelson Mandela was also called a terrorist by the South African government when he and the ANC attempted to gain more rights for black people in South Africa.
Terrorism or Terrorist -LRB- one country 's freedom fighter is another country 's terrorist -RRB-
Although some people think that terrorist are Muslims or religious groups, but many are not.
For example, terrorism has been a problem in Israel for a long time.
The Republic of South Africa is a country in the southern region of Africa.
About forty-five million people live there.
In 1652, Jan van Riebeeck the Cape by starting a refresh station.
Because there were very few people living in the Cape, slaves were brought from Indonesia, Madagascar and India to work at the Colony.
This caused a great number of people to come to South Africa from Europe.
They were hoping to make money.
Not only were there gold and diamonds to look for : people were needed to run shops, build houses and do lots of other things.
The British soldiers and their commanders lost the war.
They came back 8 years later in 1899 and won the war in 1902.
The British had brought much more soldiers the second time, and the Boers had no chance of winning.
On May 31, 1910 the Union of South Africa was made from the Cape and Natal colonies, as well as the Orange Free State and the Transvaal, the two Boer Republics.
South Africa 's most liked sports are soccer, rugby union and cricket.
Other sports with good help are swimming, athletics, golf, boxing, tennis and netball.
Although soccer commands the greatest following among the youth, other sports like basketball, surfing and skateboarding are becoming more liked.
It also tried to get the 2004 Olympic Games, but got 3rd place, losing to Athens.
South Africa is also well known for their cricket team who are right now the world 's number one in test match cricket.
The bigest city is Johannesburg ; the capitals are Cape Town, Pretoria, and Bloemfontein.
As a result, the country has an name in each language.
One of South Africa 's most known people is Nelson Mandela, who was its president from 1994 until 1999.
The current president is Jacob Zuma.
In 1487, Bartolomeu Dias found what he called the `` Cape of Storms ''.
In 1652, Jan van Riebeeck colonized the Cape by starting a refresh station.
Because there were very few people living in the Cape, slaves were brought from Indonesia, Madagascar and India to work at the colony.
Diamonds were found in South Africa in 1867.
Gold was found in 1884.
This made a great number of people to come to South Africa from Europe.
The war was between the British, who had the Cape, and the Boer Republics.
At this time, the British made use of camps which weakened the Boers and helped the British stop the war from lasting any longer.
South Africa suffers from mostly heavy overall compared to developed countries.
South Africa 's economy is split.
It is split between First World and Third World standards.
Unemployment is very high.
Income inequality is about the same as Brazil.
During 1995 -- 2003, the number of older jobs went down.
Informal jobs went up.
The action policies have seen a rise in black economic wealth.
There is a developing black middle class.
South Africa spends more on its military than any of its neighboring countries do.
They have very advanced weapons as a result.
Soccer is the most liked among youth.
There are other sports like basketball, surfing and skateboarding that are becoming more liked.
There are football players who have played for major clubs.
Some of them are Lucas Radebe and Philemon Masinga -LRB- both were of Leeds United -RRB-, Quinton Fortune -LRB- Atletico Madrid and Manchester United -RRB-, Benni McCarthy -LRB- Ajax Amsterdam, F.C. Porto and Blackburn Rovers -RRB-, Aaron Mokoena -LRB- Ajax Amsterdam, Blackburn Rovers and Portsmouth -RRB-, Delron Buckley -LRB- Borussia Dortmund -RRB- and Steven Pienaar -LRB- Ajax Amsterdam and Everton -RRB-.
South Africa has also made many world class rugby players.
Some of them are Francois Pienaar, Joost van der Westhuizen, Danie Craven, Frik du Preez, Naas Botha, and Bryan Habana.
South Africa hosted and won the 1995 Rugby World Cup at their first try.
They won the 2007 Rugby World Cup in France.
It followed the 1995 Rugby World Cup by hosting the 1996 African Cup of Nations.
It had the national team, ` Bafana Bafana, ' going on to win the tournament.
It also hosted the 2003 Cricket World Cup.
and the 2007 World Twenty20 Championship.
Both of them were a great success.
South Africa will be the host nation for the 2010 FIFA World Cup.
This will be the first time the tournament is held on the African continent.
It also tried to get the 2004 Olympic Games, but got 3rd place.
It losed to Athens.
South Africa is also well known for their cricket team.
They are right now the world 's number one in test match cricket.
In 1487, Bartolomeu Diasdiscovered what he called the `` Cape of Storms ''.
He did this by starting a refresh station.
Diamonds were discovered in South Africa in 1867.
South Africa 's economy is divided.
It is divided between First World and Third World standards.
The developed part of the economy is similar to that of most nations with wealth -LRB- for example, Britain or Australia -RRB-.
In 2000 the average white family was earning six times more than the average black household.
Owning states and fighting stopped people from entering in lots of places.
labor rules have added to the unemployment weakness.
From the east, the land quickly rises over mountains towards the back plateau known as the Highveld.
Even though South Africa is thought as semi-arid, there is a difference in climate as well as topography.
The back of South Africa is a big and flat.
It sparsely populated scrubland, the Karoo, which is drier towards the northwest along the Namib desert.
It is a very populated scrubland, the Karoo, which is drier towards the northwest along the Namib desert.
The eastern coastline however, is well-watered, which makes a climate kind of like the tropics.
It may be discussed that there is no single South African culture because of its ethnic.
Today, the diversity in foods from many cultures is enjoyed by all and marketed to tourists who wish to taste South African food.
Food is n't the only thing, music and dance is there too.
South African food is mostly meat-based and has spawned the distinctively South African social gathering known as a braai, or barbecue.
South African food is mostly meat-based and has the South African social gathering known as a braai, or barbecue.
South Africa has also developed into a big wine maker.
It has some of the best vineyards lying in valleys around Stellenbosch, Franschoek, Paarl and Barrydale.
Most South African blacks still have poor lives.
It is among these people, however, that cultural traditions live most strongly.
This is beacause blacks have become and Westernised, parts of traditional culture have fallen.
Urban blacks normally speak English or Afrikaans in addition to their native tongue.
There are smaller but still important groups of speakers of Khoisan languages who are not in the eleven official languages, but are one of the eight other officially recognized languages.
HEADING Population
South Africa is a nation of about 50 million people of diverse origins, cultures, languages, and religions.
The last census was held in 2001 and the next will be in 2011.
Statistics South Africa provided five racial categories by which people could classify themselves, the last of which, `` unspecified\/other '' drew negligible responses, and these results were omitted.
Census 2001, Statistics South Africa.
The 2009 midyear estimated figures for the other categories were Black African at 79.3%, White at 9.1%, Coloured at 9.0%, and Indian or Asian at 2.6%.
South Africa is a nation of about 50 million people of diverse s, cultures, languages, and religions.
Statistics South Africa had five racial categories by which people could classify themselves, the last of which, `` unspecified\/other '' drew `` not needed '' responses, and these results were not sounted.
The 2009 middle-year estimated figures for the other categories were Black African at 79.3%, White at 9.1%, Colored at 9.0%, and Indian or Asian at 2.6%.
A big and beautiful castle, Hiroshima-jo was built.
A building near the blast center still remains and is called Atomic Doom.
An old shrine named Itukushima shrine is here.
It is said that Itukushima shrine was built at the end of the 5th century.
Today Itsukushima shrine and Atomic Doom are registered as World Heritage sites.
Also it was a landing site for the U.S.
A sphere is a shape in space that is like the surface of a ball, usually the terms ball and sphere are used alike, but in math, the precise -LRB- exact -RRB- definition only allows points in the 3 dimensional space which are uniformly and symmetrically allocated at a fixed length called radius of the sphere.
It can be expensive but can help make a business make more money.
The flag of the United States has 7 red stripes and 6 white stripes These 13 stripes stand for the 13 original states.
The flag also has a canton, a rectangle in the top left corner.
The canton has one star for every state.
When a new state joins the United States a new flag is made with an extra star.
The new flag is first flown on the `` 4th of July '', the Independence Day.
The last states to join the United States were Alaska and Hawaii in 1959.
Alaska joined on 3 January 1959, so the new flag with 49 stars was used from 4 July 1959.
Hawaii joined on 21 August 1959 so the flag with 50 stars that is used today was not flown until 4 July 1960.
The colors have no specisl meaning in theflsg, but in the coat of arms white for purity and innocence, red for bravery and strength and blue for watchfulness, perseverance and justice.
13 horizontal -LRB- meaning from side to side, not top to bottom -RRB- red and white stripes, representing the original 13 states.
Drugs are usually given for schizophrenia.
But the drugs are thought to only treat the symptoms.
Drugs called anti-psychotics are good for the positive symptoms, but do not seem to help the negative symptoms go away.
In fact, some of the drugs for the positive symptoms may make the negative symptoms worse.
There are drugs that can be given against Schizophrenia.
However, these only treat the symptoms.
There is a condition called `` Simple Schizophrenia '', sometimes known as simple disorder.
It does not include hallucinations or delusions.
Some people think it is not the same thing as schizophrenia.
Schizophrenia is a disease that commonly afflicts high school teachers, an example of this is teige wolfe.
Who teaches history... even though she frequently talks to herself, cSchizophrenia is the name for a number of mental illnesses.
A need is a thing that a living being, plant or animal, must have to live or to be happy.
A thing that someone would like to have, but does not need a lot, is called a want.
Every person has the same basic needs for the body.
Humans have boldily needs of water, food, clothing, and shelter to live.
The need for water is the most important because a person will die very quickly without drinking water.
In a warm place food is the next most important need.
In a cold place, the need for clothes or shelter may be next most important because a person will soon die without these.
Other human needs are not so certain.
They are mostly needs for the mind.
It is often said that a person needs love, family, and friends.
These needs are for personal relationships.
They may also be wants.
It is true that a life may be better with these things, but some friends can be bad, or bad sometimes.
Good relationships can make life very happy.
Thinking about a need that is not possible can make a person very unhappy.
Some of the study of philosophy is about questions like `` What are the needs of a human ? ''
The word philosophy is from Greek, meaning the love of wisdom.
Some scientists study the needs of human or animal minds and bodies.
The study of the mind is called psychology - words about the mind.
The study of bodily needs is part of medicine.
Every year, millions of Muslims walk from Mecca to Medina.
This is called the Haj, where they follow in the footsteps of Mohammed.
Mecca is one of the holiest cities in the Islamic world.
Arabia contains many states.
The largest state in Arabia is Saudi Arabia.
Arabia contains many countries -LRB- or states or nations -RRB-.
The largest country in Arabia is Saudi Arabia.
Arabia includes the countries of :
Kuwait
The peninsula is part of the Middle East, but that usually means the Arabian Peninsula with the Levant and Mesopotamia.
The word `` Arabia '' often refers only to Saudi Arabia.
In those days the land was called Gallia or Gaul.
French is the language spoken in France, Southern Belgium, Luxembourg -LRB- as well as German and Letzebuergisch -RRB- and Western Switzerland.
A prime minister manages the of a country.
In countries with a president they manage the running of the - an example of this is France.
A prime ministermanages the politics of a country.
With countries that have kings and queens -LRB- known as monarchs -RRB-, they are very important because they are in charge of most of the politics.
In countries with a president, they manage the country.
A prime minister '' manages the politics of a country.
A prime minister manages the politics of a country.
The Soviet Union -LRB- short for Union of Soviet Socialist Republics -LRB- USSR -RRB- -RRB- was a socialist group of countries that came together to form one large country.
The communist government developed industry and over time became a major, powerful union of countries.
The largest of the countries in the Union was Russia, and Kazakhstan was the next largest.
It was the first country to have an officially communist government.
In the 1970 's and 1980 's when computer databases were invented, the words data and information were defined separately in computer science and informatics as
Data - raw unprocessed information, not checked and untrusted.
Information - data that has been checked and passes acceptance tests, it is to be considered dependable and trustworthy.
HEADING FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you FUCK you !
It is different from an airfield, airstrip, or aerodrome because they have buildings for the passengers to wait for their planes and cargo.
They are often called terminals.
Airports also have buildings called hangers to hold planes when they are not used.
People must walk through a metal detector, a machine that can tell if metal goes through it.
They also have X-Ray machines that can look into luggage.
If officers find items such as weapons, guns, or anything that can be used to kill people, they have that item -LRB- and mostly the person who has it -RRB- taken away.
There is also ` dry ice ' ; it is frozen carbon dioxide.
It does not melt at atmospheric pressure but sublimes -LRB- evaporates -RRB- directly to gas.
This occurs at a temperature of -109.3 & deg ; F or -78.5 & deg ; C ; as such this is for many people the lowest temperature they ever encounter.
If you put water in a freezer and leave it for a while, the water will freeze solid, creating ice.
You can put water into a copper -LRB- or metal -RRB- container if you want ice to freeze faster.
Copper is a very good conducter of heat -- it can freeze water faster than a regular -LRB- plastic -RRB- ice tray would be able to.
Surprisingly, an open tray of hot water can freeze faster than the same amount of cold water !
This happens because enough of the hot water can evaporate before cooling, reducing the amount of water to be frozen.
Unlike other liquids, water expands as it freezes to become ice ; so ice floats on water because ice has less dense than water.
This is very unusual - just about every other liquid gets more dense as it cools ; water ice, however, is an important exception.
Salt water needs a lower temperature to freeze than pure water.
The resulting ice contains much less salt than the salt water it came from.
This salty ice is not as strong as frozen pure water.
Similarly spreading salt on ice melts it, the salt progressively eats into the ice forming salty water which is not cold enough to be frozen at the same temperature.
Because ice floats, even large bodies of water that freeze, like some oceans, only form ice on the surface.
If ice were to sink instead of float, the oceans would fill up with ice from the bottom, would remain solid and only some of the top would thaw.
But because ice floats on the surface the water beneath can continue to circulate and the ice on the surfce stays exposed and readily melts when the temperature rises.
The earth 's climate is always changing.
When it is very cold it 's called an ice age.
The most recent ice age finished only ten thousand years ago.
During ice ages very large areas of the earth are covered in ice, snow and glaciers.
The causes of ice ages are complex.
Global warming is currently affecting the earth 's ice resources and its causes are also very complex.
When most materials reach a temperature called the freezing point, the molecules form a crystalline solid - although some materials -LRB- like glass and tar -RRB- do not crystallise at all but form super stiff fluids, which seem to be solid.
Only Helium will not freeze ; all other substances will freeze if cold enough, but fluids like cooking oil, anti-freeze, petrol -LRB- gasoline -RRB-, nitrogen, etc. freeze at temperatures that most people will rarely, if ever, experience.
There is also ` dry ice ' ; it is frozen carbon dioxide.
Dry ice does not occur naturally on earth but is man made.
Dry ice remains solid at temperatures below -109.3 & deg ; F or -78.5 & deg ; C - the lowest temperature many people will commonly experience.
It will not melt from a solid to a liquid but sublimes -LRB- evaporates -RRB- directly to gas.
It will change directly from a solid to a gas at any temperature higher than these very low temperatures, such as normal air temperature.
Dry ice exposed to normal air gives off carbon dioxide gas that is odourless and colourless.
The gas is so cold that when it mixes with air it cools the water vapor in the air to fog, which looks like a thick white smoke.
It is often used in the theater to create the appearance of fog or smoke.
Ice is a force to be reckoned with.
Dry ise exposed to normal air gives off carbon dioxide gas that is odorless and colorless.
HEADING External link
It is used as a surface to write on.
Blackboards are often used to help teach.
Then in 1991, a Finnish man named Linus Torvalds wrote the most basic part of the operating system -LRB- kernel -RRB-, that would combine with their work to make a full operating system.
OpenOffice for office work.
In 1997, Linus Torvalds said, `` Making Linux GPL 'd was definitely the best thing I ever did. ''
The Linux kernel was made up of 2.4 million lines of code, or 8% of the total.
The performance of Linux on the desktop has been a topic discussed by many people, with at least one very important Linux kernel developer, Con Kolivas, saying that the Linux community prefers performance on servers rather than on desktops.
He quit Linux development because he did not like this, and then gave a ` tell all ' interview on the topic.
A 2001 study of Red Hat Linux 7.1 found this distribution had 30 million lines of code.
The study said red hat 7.1 required about eight thousand man-years of time to development.
the study also said, if all this software had been made by proprietary means, it would have cost about 1.08 billion dollars -LRB- in year 2000 U.S.A. dollars -RRB- to make in the United States.
Most of the code -LRB- 71% -RRB- was written in the C programming language, and many other languages were used, including C + +, assembly language, Perl, Python, Fortran, and various shell scripting languages.
A little more than half of all lines of code were licensed under the GPL.
The Linux kernel was made up of 2.4 million lines of code, or 8% of all the code.
A GNU\/Linux version has the Linux kernel and the GNU operating system, and some extra programs that might not be part of GNU.
Red Hat Linux -LRB- now only for companies -RRB-
People might pay some money for a version, so they can have a CD-ROM or DVD and to help the company to make their versions better.
Usually when someone pays, it is so the company will help the user after they install it, which is called `` support ''.
GIMP, Inkscape and Blender help people work with pictures.
Although there are only a few Linux versions for some Mac OS X and Microsoft Windows programs in areas like desktop publishing and professional audio and video there are programs that are comparatively similar in quality compared to those available for Mac and Windows.
Anyone can see how the code works and can change it if they want to make it work differently.
The opposite of open source is closed source, where the source is not available to everyone.
Open Source is almost the same thing as Free software, but people who know the difference between the names choose between them because of different reasons.
Open Source and Free software have been around for decades, but they became popular with the Linux and BSD software communities.
It was designed for Linux, but many other operating systems can use it too.
GNOME aims to provide an easy way to use a computer.
GNOME is an open source project.
GNOME has many applications written for it.
Some of them include :
Abiword - A word processor, used for writing documents
Gaim - Talk to your friends online.
Like birds, wild dogs travel in groups called packs.
Dogs Aree Usually Said To Be ` Mans Best Friend `
30 million dogs in the United States are as pets.
Sometimes people also use `` dog '' to describe other canids, such as wolves.
Dogs often chase cats, and most dogs will a ball or stick.
Dogs usually live about 10 years or more.
Electronics was first meant to be that branch of science which contained the ` Flow of Electrons through Vacuum ' !
Electronics is the study and use of electrical devices that operate by controlling the flow of electrons or other electrically charged particles in devices such as vacuum tubes and semiconductors.
Some electronic circuits process and distribute information.
Other electronic circuits convert and distribute energy.
One way of looking at an electronic system is to divide it into the following parts :
Inputs - Electrical or mechanical sensors -LRB- or transducers -RRB-, which take signals -LRB- in the form of temperature, pressure, etc. -RRB- from the physical world and convert them into current\/voltage signals.
Signal processing circuits - These consist of electronic components connected together to manipulate, interpret and transform the signals.
Outputs - Actuators or other devices -LRB- also transducers -RRB- that transform current\/voltage signals back into useful physical form.
At about the same time, integrated circuits -LRB- miniature semicondutor circuits containing large numbers of very small transistors overlaid on very thin slices of silicon -RRB- came into general use.
i.e. mass is measured by scalars, disctancwes are measured by scalars.
i.e. mass is measured by scalars, disctances are measured by scalars.
Here only the figure 2 or 3 along with the unit of measure is enough to transmit information about the rod.
Some simple things, like the length of a rod, can be measured by only giving one number, with the unit of measurement.
Such things are called scalars
Unfortunately, this information is not enough in many cases.
In such cases, you also need to specify in what direction the number applies, as well as the unit of measure.
HEADING Example
Suppose, you are driving in a car, going from A to B, at a certain speed.
You now need to also include the information thatb you are going from A to B, when telling someone.
If you forget that, you would simply be telling them the speed.
example Displacement : this is ` Distance traveled per unit time ' in a certain direction.
The measurement of ` Distance traveled per unit time ' would be the same as that of speed.
But the information of ` direction ' can not be transmitted by scalars.
This small change makes things alot harder.
Adding two vectors is harder than adding two scalar numbers.
examples :
Force, Displacement, Acceleration, etc.
John is in a car at point A, driving at a certain speed towards B. If John calls Sally to tell her how fast he 's going, she does n't know in which direction John is going.
If Sally wants to know where John will be in one hour 's time, she ca n't work that out without a direction.
The simplest way to show a vector is as a line segment, with a starting point and an ending point, usually shown as an arrow.
The name comes from these two wheels - the prefix `` bi - '' meaning two, and the suffix '' - cycle '' meaning wheel.
After the clay had dried in the sun the tablets were baked.
Then they were carried somewhere else for others to read.
A book is a collection of papers held together between two covers to keep the papers inside safe.
These books are about stories that did not happen, and have been imagined by the author.
Books of non-fiction are about true facts or things that really happened.
Some examples are dictionaries, cookbooks, textbooks for learning in school, or a biography -LRB- someone 's life story -RRB-.
HEADING Historical
The words in books may be read aloud or recorded on tapes -LRB- audiobooks -RRB- and compact discs.
A common type of manuscript was the scroll, which was a long sheet rolled up.
Turning the manuscript into a book required several developments.
The common cheap supply of paper fed the faster prining machines, and books became cheaper.
All these processes became done by machines during the 19th century.
The dots ''... '' mean there are many moves, so we do not show them all.
Nim is much simpler to think about.
It also partly grew from looking at the oriental game Go.
CGT proves things about certain two-player games.
A player loses the game if there is no move on that player 's turn.
It might seem as if few games like that would be interesting -- but it turns out that a large number of new and old games can be analyzed with CGT.
One could also, however, think of a chess game after the first move as a different game, with a different setup.
The dots ''... '' mean there are many moves, so not all are shown.
It is better to think of easier games.
Nim, for example, is much simpler to think about.
The easiest game of Nim starts with no counters at all !
In such a case, neither player can move.
That is shown as as the symbol 0 -LRB- zero -RRB-.
The next-easiest game has only one pile, with just one counter.
If the left player goes first, that player must take the counter, leaving right with no moves -LRB-
On a turn, a player may take as many counters from one pile as that player wants.
The player who can not make a move loses.
The legal definition of murder and manslaughter may be different in different countries, and is very much debated : for example, killing in war is not usually called murder by those who take place in in the war, whatever the reasons for the war are.
Murder is when one person kills another person on.
It is only called `` murder '' when it is the law.
If a person does something that makes someone else die, it is often known as manslaughter or homicide.
This is especially true if it was an accident.
Sometimes, a death caused by someone else may not be a crime.
For example, in some countries, it is not a crime to defend yourself, even if it kills the attacker.
`` Assassination '' is a word which means murdering someone as a job.
An assassin may murder someone for political reasons, for money, or for other reasons, such as favors owed.
The word `` Assassin '' comes from Hashshashin, American Speech - McCarthy, Kevin M. Volume 48, pp.
Birds have two legs usually covered with scales -LRB- small, flat and hard plates which over-lap feathers -RRB-.
If a bird has very long legs, then it probably spends most of its time walking, such as a crane, or wading -LRB- walking in water -RRB-, such as a flamingo.
Birds with short legs and long necks.
as have pelicans, geese and swans are birds that swim well and dive their heads into the water for food.
A pelican 's beak can change into a shape the same was as a huge bucket for catching fish.
Birds that are shaped the same way as torpedoes are good at diving.
Some birds, such eagles, owls vultures and hawks have beaks which are hooked and very large claws -LRB- also called `` talons '' -RRB- with which they can tear and carry meat.
Some birds have short beaks but wide mouths that are perfect for catching insects in the air, such as swallows, swifts and nightjars.
Some birds that eat fruit, such as toucans and hornbills, have beaks which are enormous, but are very light in weight.
The curved beaks of parrots are ideal for eating large seeds and cracking nuts, while birds that peck small seeds and food from the ground have short beaks, such as pigeons.
Birds that live in long grass often have brown feathers streaked with black shadows.
Other birds, including starlings and minahs, are quite dark in color, but are flecked with little spots that look the same as raindrops on leaves.
Their yellow and black striped back helps to hide them in the shadows made by long dry grass, while their green breasts are a similar color to the leaves of gum trees.
Grey birds are often rock-living birds, such as pigeons, or birds that sit on dead tree trunks.
Water birds close to the look of herons often have a pale gray color which makes it harder for a fish to notice that the bird is standing, looking down for something to catch.
Water birds, no matter what color they are on top, are often white underneath, so that when a fish looks up, the bird as if it was part of the sky.
Crows and ravens often perch high on bare trees in the winter, where their black shape against the sky looks the same as the dark bare branches.
Some birds are famous for their color and are named for it, such as the Bluebird, the Azure Kingfisher, the Golden Pheasant, the Scarlet Macaw, the Violet Wren and the Robin Redbreast.
Some of the most colourful birds are quite common, such as pheasants, peacocks, domestic fowl and parrots.
Some birds, such as those of the Bird of Paradise in Papua New Guinea, have such beautiful feathers that they have been hunted for them.
With some birds, such flamingos, the male and the female are both brightly colored.
With other species, only the male is brightly colored, and uses his colorful feathers to attract females.
There are only a very few types of birds -LRB- such as the Eclectus Parrot -RRB- where the female is more colourful than the male.
Large birds of prey, such as eagles that spend a lot of time soaring on the wind, have wings that are large and broad.
When the eagle sees some small creature move, it can close its wings and fall from the sky the same was as a missile, opening its great wings again to slow down as it comes to land.
These include many Australian birds, such as Cockatoos.
Some birds, such as geese, migrate from one country to another fly very long distances.
Birds that fly very quickly, such as swifts and swallows have long narrow pointed wings.
They often collect in huge flocks of thousands of birds that move together the same was as a whirling cloud.
Birds such as owls that hunt at night, have wings with soft rounded feathers so that they do n't flap loudly.
They can sleep while gliding and have wings which, when they are stretched right out, look the same as the wings of a jet plane.
Birds, such chickens that feed mainly on the ground and only use their wings to fly to safety, have small wings.
These include running birds, such as ostriches and emus and ocean-living birds, the large penguin family.
Kiwis are endangered because European settlement to New Zealand brought animals such as cats, dogs and rats which kill kiwis and eat their eggs.
Although birds are warm-blooded creatures such as mammals, they do not give birth to live babies.
They lay eggs the same was as cold-blooded creatures such as lizards.
Some birds are mated for life, such as married couples.
In some types of birds, such as pigeons, the parents watch over this and as the young ones get stronger, will give them flying lessons, teaching them how to glide, how to fly in spirals and how to land the same was as an expert.
Studies of small flocking birds, such as tree sparrows, show that they clearly communicate with each other, as sometimes thousands of birds may fly in close formation and spiral patterns without colliding -LRB- or flying into each other -RRB-.
These communication sounds are often short hard sounds, such as chirps, squeaks, squawks.
Most singing birds that are kept as pets, such as canaries, have several tunes and some variations.
This is an Australian bird that is close in look to a black and white crow.
HEADING The first bird-type creatures
At one time swans and flamingos were special food for the rich and powerful, such as some Emperors of Rome, but people are usually not allowed to eat them now.
HEADING See also
List of Birds
Scientists have been studying fossils in China to discover more about the origin of birds.
Palaeontologists now agree that birds evolved from theropod dinosaurs.
Some scientists think of birds as a type of dinosaur that is still alive today and belongs to the Maniraptora group of theropods.
Fossils found in the Liaoning Province of Northeast China show that many small theropod dinosaurs had feathers.
A dromaeosaur fossil called a Cryptovolans could probably fly.
It may have been better at flying than Archaeopteryx.
Some people say this is why some governments do not allow free speech : they do not want to be criticised, or they fear there would be revolution if everyone knew everything that was happening in the country.
For example, the United States Supreme Court said that it was against the law to shout `` fire '' in a crowded theater if there is no fire, because this might cause people to panic.
Also, some countries have laws against hate speech.
Freedom of speech is thought to also include Freedom of information.
However, new laws are usually needed to allow information to be used easily.
As Tocqueville pointed out, people may be hesitant to speak freely not because of fear of government but because of social pressures.
There are about 100 different kinds of banana trees.
Some banana trees grow edible fruit.
A beaker is a kind of laboratory glassware.
A beaker is a cylinder with a lip and a spout -LRB- a bend it the rim of the beaker which makes it easier to pour liquids without spilling any -RRB-.
A beaker is usually about the same width as its height.
Some beakers have marks on them to show about how much volume of liquid they hold - these can not be used for exact measurements.
Beakers are often used to make solutions and they are probably the most used piece of laboratory glassware.
Data compression is making data use less space on a disk.
When we compress data, we make it smaller.
Some reasons why data are compressed are : to make them download faster, to make them fit on floppy disks, and to make them easier to archive -LRB- keep -RRB-.
To make pictures and movies smaller, we often remove parts that the human eye can not see.
This is known as `` lossy '' compression and it is effective because of human limitations.
Some reasons why data is compressed is : to make them download faster, to make them fit on floppy disks, and to make them easier to archive -LRB- keep -RRB-.
The output from `` unzipping '' a zip file are files identical to the original files, this is known as `` lossless '' compression.
Data compression is useful in computing to save disk space, or to reduce the bandwidth used when transmitting data -LRB- eg, over the internet -RRB-.
The eye is the part of the body that lets people see.
The eye is an organ for the purpose of sensing light.
The simplest eyes -LRB- such as those of some animals -RRB- see nothing but whether the area around is light or dark.
More complex eyes give the full sense of vision, including color, motion, and texture.
The retina helps the eyes get used to the lights, and helps them to see better when in a different lighting.
As some people get older, they might not be as able to do this.
Many people are born with other sight problems or get them later in life, and they may need eyeglasses -LRB- or contact lenses -RRB- to fix the problem.
Some snails, for example, see no image -LRB- picture -RRB- at all, but they `` see '' light, which lets helps them keep out of bright sunlight.
Some snails, for example, see no image -LRB- picture -RRB- at all, but they `` see '' light, which helps them stay out of bright sunlight.
One way to categorize eyes is to look at the number of `` chamber `` s. Simple eyes are made of only one concave chamber, perhaps with a lens.
Compound eyes have many such chambers with their lenses on a convex surface.
Here, simple does not mean that the eye itself is not a complex design.
Eyes can be adapted to their environment, or the behavior of the animal that has them.
The limitations of the eye types are that of resolution.
Compound eyes can not have a resolution better than 1.
Also, superposition eyes can achieve greater sensitivity than apposition eyes ; they are therefore better suited to dark-dwelling creatures.
Eyes also can be grouped according to how the photoreceptor is made.
Photoreceptors are either cillated, or rhabdomic.
Pit eyes are also known as Stemma.
Very often, they are set in a pit.
This is done to reduce the angles at which light can enter.
This allows the organism to say where the light is coming from.
Such eyes can be found in about 85% of phyla.
They probably came before the development of more complex `` simple eyes ''.
Pit eyes are small.
They are made of up to about hundred cells, covering about 100 m. The directionality can be improved by reducing the size of the aperture, by putting a reflective layer behind the receptor cells, or by filling the pit with a refractile material.
The pinhole eye is an `` advanced '' form of pit eye.
It has several improvements, most notably a small aperture and deep pit.
Sometimes, the aperture can be changed.
The resolution of pit eyes can be improved a lot, by adding a material with a higher refractive index to make a lens.
This will reduce the radius of the blurring, and increase the resolution that can be achieved.
The most basic form can still be seen in some gastropods and annelids.
These eyes have a lens of one refractive index.
It is possible to get a better image with materials that have a high refractive index which decreases towards the edges.
This decreases the focal length and allows a sharp image to form on the retina.
This also allows a larger aperture for a given sharpness of image - more light will enter the lens ; and a flatter lens, reducing spherical aberration.
Such an inhomogeneous lens is necessary in order for the focal length to drop from about 4 times the lens radius, to 2.5 times.
No aquatic organisms have homogeneous lenses ; presumably the evolutionary pressure for a heterogeneous lens is great enough for this stage to be quickly `` outgrown ''.
HEADING Problems
This construction of the eye also has certain problems.
One of them is that chromatic aberration is still quite high.
This means that the colors seen are wrong.
This is of course a small problem for organisms that can not see colors
Another problem that can be found in the eye of vertebrates is the blind spot at the optic disc.
There, the optic nerve is attached to the back of the eye.
There are no rods or cones there which could detect light.
The eye of the cephalopod has no blind spot, because the retina is in the opposite orientation.
HEADING Many lenses
Some animals that live in the sea have eyes with more than one lens.
One such animal is the copeopod Pontella, which has eyes with three lenses.
The outer lens has a parabolic surface.
This acts against spherical aberration and allows a sharp image to form.
Such arrangements can not be found often.
They are also poorly understood.
They are an interesting alternative construction, though.
Animals that hunt their prey, such as eagles or jumping spiders sometimes have several lenses.
They have a refractive cornea.
This is a negative lens which makes the image bigger, by up to 50%.
This increases the resolution of the eye.
Other animals that dive very often have found a different solution : They use a very strong cornea.
It is avaliable for FreeBSD, Linux, Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, and QNX.
Its mascot is Abi the ant.
It is much smaller than many other commercial word-processors of its time, only using about 15Mb on a computer 's hard drive under Microsoft Windows.
HEADING External links
AbiWord is a free word processor that can be downloaded for free, it is open source and is much smaller in size than a proprietary alternative, Microsoft Word.
It is for being easy to use.
Blattaria -LRB- Cockroaches -RRB-
Orthoptera -LRB- grasshoppers, crickets and Locusts -RRB-
Hymenoptera -LRB- ants, bees, wasps, sawflies -RRB-
Trichoptera -LRB- moth-like -RRB-
Zoraptera -LRB- one genus, about 30 species, have sex termites -RRB-
Blattaria -LRB- Cockroaches -RRB- fuck
Gross Domestic Product -LRB- GDP -RRB- of a nation is a value got by adding up its output inside the borders of that country.
In other words, a country with a high value of GDP can be called a big or a large economy.
Cricket is a sport.
It is played between two teams of eleven who score points by running between two sets of three posts called Wickets.
Each of the wickets is at one end of a rectangle of flattened grass called the pitch.
Around the pitch is a much larger oval of grass called the cricket ground.
One of the team is called the batting team, they only have two players playing at any one time.
The other team is called the fielding team who have all elevern of their players on the pitch at any one time.
the two players of the batting team stand at each end of the pitch in front of the wicket and holding a bat, they are called batsmen -LRB- or batswomen -RRB-.
One players of the fielding team throws -LRB- or bowls -RRB- the ball to one of the batsmen, they are called the bowler.
that batsman must make sure that the bowler does not hit the wicket with the ball.
They do this by hitting the ball with their bat.
If the ball does hit the wicket, or if it is thought that the ball would have hit the wicket but hit the body of the batsman because they where standing in the way then they are out and must leave the pitch.
Once a batsman hits the ball they may run to the opposite wicket, whilst their team mate runs to their wicket.
If the batsmen are able to do this then they score one point -LRB- which is called a run -RRB-.
However if any member of the fielding team hits one of the wickets before the batsmen can reach it then that batsman is out and must leave the pitch.
Another way that the fielding team can get the batsman out is by catching a ball that one of the batsmen hits before it bounces on the ground.
However if the batsman hits the ball and it goes outside the cricket ground without bouncing then that batsman scores 6 runs.
If the ball goes outside the ground after having bounced they score 4 runs.
Play continues untill ten batsmen are made out, this is because there must be two batsmen on the pitch in order for the game to continue.
At this time the batting and fielding teams swap round with the fielding team becoming the batting team and the batting team becoming the fielding team.
In some games each team plays the role of the batting team and the fielding team once, whilst in other days each team plays the role of batting and fielding teams twice.
In some games there is also a time limit and if this time limit is passed without the game finishing then it is called a draw.
This means that some games last for five days but still end in a draw.
cricket is popular in many countries.
The countries where cricket is most popular compete in a competition between each other, they are India, Australia, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, South Africa, New Zealand, Zimbabwe and England as well as a group of Caribbean islands who compete together as a team called the west indies.
It is played between two teams of eleven players each who score points by running between two sets of three posts called Wickets.
The other team is called the fielding team who have all eleven of their players playing at any one time.
the two players of the batting team stand at each end of the pitch in front of each wicket and holding a bat, they are called batsmen -LRB- or batswomen -RRB-.
One of the players of the fielding team bowls the ball to one of the batsmen, they are called the bowler.
Bowling the ball means that the ball is thrown by the bower whilst he keeps his arm straith, in Baseball and some other sports the ball is thrown with a bent arm which allows the ball to be thrown faster.
the batsman must make sure that the bowler does not hit the wicket with the ball.
If the ball does hit the wicket, or if it is thought that the ball would have hit the wicket but hit the body of the batsman because they where standing in the way then they are out and must leave the pitch and are replaced by another member of the batting team.
One of the teams is called the batting team ; they only have two players playing at any one time.
The two players of the batting team stand at each end of the pitch in front of each wicket and holding a bat, they are called batsmen -LRB- or batswomen -RRB-.
One of the players of the fielding team bowls the ball to one of the batsmen-this player is called the bowler.
Bowling the ball means that the ball is thrown by the bower whilst he keeps his arm strait, in Baseball and some other sports the ball is thrown with a bent arm, which allows the ball to be thrown faster.
The batsman must make sure that the bowler does not hit the wicket with the ball.
Play continues until ten batsmen are made out, this is because there must be two batsmen on the pitch in order for the game to continue.
Cricket is popular in many countries.
The countries where cricket is most popular compete in a competition between each other ; they are India, Australia, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, South Africa, New Zealand, Zimbabwe and England as well as a group of Caribbean islands that compete together as a team called the West Indies
HEADING The Main Rules of Cricket
there are two teams.
the team bowling has 11 players on the field.
the team batting has 2 people on the field.
the bowler is trying to throw the ball at three sticks with bails on them or in other words, a wicket -LRB- the wicket is usually called a stump -RRB-.
the batter is trying to defend the wicket with his bat.
when he hits the ball far with his bat, he runs toward the line that the bowler or the other batsman is standing at.
to score a run, the 2 batsmen must run towards the two lines, multiple times if possible.
the bowling team has one bowler and 11 fielders.
one of the fielders, called the wicket keeper, stands behind the wicket to catch the ball if the bowler misses the wicket.
the other fielders catch the ball after the batter has hit it.
if the fielders catch it before it hits the ground, the batter that hit it is out.
if the ball flies out of the field, it is 6 points for the batter.
if it rolls out, it is 4 points.
if the ball hits the ground before the fielders catch it, they have to throw it to the wicket keeper, who hits the wicket with the ball.
they can do that when the batsmen are running betwen the lines.
There are various ways that a batsman can get out.
But, they were not used very much in World War II, apart by the Japanese army during the invasion of China.
Iran means `` Aryan '' in Persian.
In the 19th and early 20th century, the name Aryan was used by Europeans to mean all Indo-Europeans.
The `` Aryan Race '' was a term that Hitler used to describe his ideal `` Superior '' or `` perfect '' race, though it originally meant Iranians.
Each time a page is saved, the old version is kept in the page history.
You can change the page back to one of these old versions.
You can do this when a page has been vandalised, or when something has been added or removed when it should not have been.
Changing to an old version is called reverting
HEADING Reverting
To revert to an older version :
Go to the page, click on `` Page history '', and click on the time and date of the earlier version you want to revert to.
You will see '' -LRB- Revision as of 23:19 Aug 15, 2002 -RRB- '' below the title.
Make sure this is the one you want to save, then click to edit the page, as you would normally.
You will get a warning, above the edit box, about editing an out-of-date revision.
Say which one you are reverting to, and why you are doing this.
A revert is usually for dealing with vandalism.
It is not a good idea to do this just because you do n't like what someone did to a page.
Intead, find a compromise -LRB- something you can both agree on -RRB-.
Reverts never cause an.
If you revert a page the same time someone else edits, you can overwrite their changes without knowing.
Be careful reverting pages where lots of people are editing at once.
On the User Contributions page a s can see `` rollback '' links.
The rollback link is also shown on the.
Clicking on the link reverts to the last edit made by a different user.
The edit summary will say `` Reverted edits by X to last version by Y ''.
If someone else has already reverted the page, you will see an error message.
If there is a vandal who needs all their edits reverted, the rollback lets you do this quickly.
HEADING Bot rollback
In cases of flood vandalism -LRB- lots of vandalism by one user in a short time -RRB-, sysops can hide the vandalism from.
To do this, add & bot = 1 to the end of the URL used to access a user 's contributions.
For example, http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=Special:Contributions&target=BadVandal&bot=1.
When you click the rollback links, the revert, and the original edit that you are reverting will be hidden from the default Recentchanges display.
It does this by marking the edits as `` bot edits '' -LRB- edits by a robot -RRB-, which are hidden from recent changes.
The edits are not hidden from, or s. The edits are still in the database and are not removed, but they no longer show up on Recentchanges.
This is done so flood vandals do not annoy people using recent changes.
HEADING Revert wars
A revert war is where two or more people keep on reverting to their own version.
Revert wars do not help the aims of Wikipedia.
They look bad, upset people and make the page history less useful.
Reverts should not be used for edit wars.
Use the talk page to discuss the problem and find something you can agree on.
If you are in an edit war, never revert the page more than three times in the same day.
On the English Wikipedia, people have been banned for a day for breaking this rule.
Ask other people what they think.
Perhaps they can reword the text to stop the edit war.
If it will not stop, ask an administrator to protect the page.
You can ask this on, or on the page, under the `` current issues '' section.
Medicine is the science that deals with illness of humans, the best ways not to get ill, and the best ways to make a sick person healthy again.
A road is a piece of land which connects two or more places.
Usually, a road has been made easy to travel on, for example by removing trees and stones so the ground is more level.
Although many roads are made of gravel and dirt, some are made of concrete or brick.
January 6 - An official look into the death of Diana, Princess of Wales begins in London.
It is held by Michael Burgess, the coroner of The Queen 's Household.
cx is placed on registry lock for violating the AUP
January 15 - The South Korean Foreign Minister, Yoon Young-kwan resigns after he says he supports American policy towards North Korea.
January 20 - India signs a $ 1.5 billion deal with Russia to buy the 45,000 tonne aircraft carrier Admiral Gorshkov along with 28 MiG-29k fighter planes.
January 28 - At a hearing of the Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States, it is revealed that the September 11, 2001 terrorists used mace -LRB- a brand of tear gas -RRB- or pepper spray to overpower the flight crew of American Airlines Flight 11.
January 31 - Mystery Science Theatre 3000 ends its run on the Sci-Fi Channel.
February 2 - An apartment building falls apart in Konya, Turkey, killing 92.
February 3 - The CIA admits that there was no immediate threat from weapons of mass destruction before the 2003 invasion of Iraq.
February 10 - At least 50 people are killed in a car bomb attack at a center for hiring police officers south of Baghdad.
February 12 - Same sex marriage in the United States : The City and County of San Francisco begins giving out marriage licenses to homosexual couples as an act of civil disobedience.
February 18 - A train carrying a convoy of gas, fertiliser and sulphur derails and explodes in Iran, killing 320 people.
February 20 - Iranian parliament election is held.
Many reformist candidates are not allowed to run, resulting in a win by conservatives.
The chief justice of the Haitian Supreme Court, Boniface Alexandre, is sworn in as interim -LRB- short-term -RRB- president.
Aristide later says he was made to resign, and that he was taken from the country by U.S. soldiers.
March 4 - bomb blasts in Iraq threaten to de-stabilise the country.
It is the highest point in Hawaii at 4205 meters.
If measured from top to bottom, below sea level, it is 10,200 meters high and would be the tallest mountain in the world.
A paperback is a type of book.
It is called foolscap because a long time ago, teachers would roll the paper into a cone and put it on a misbehaving student 's head.
Then the student would have to sit in a corner.
The word `` polymer '' can be broken down into `` poly '' -LRB- meaning `` many '' -RRB- and `` mer '' -LRB- meaning `` unit '' -RRB- which shows how the chemical composition of a polymer consists of many smaller units bound together into a single larger molecule.
If the `` units '' that make up a polymer are all the same, then the polymer is called a `` homopolymer ''.
If the `` units '' are different, the polymer is called a `` heteropolymer ''.
Tom has named the dog Max and Tom lets the dog sleep by Tom 's bed, '' it is easier to say `` Tom has a new dog.
A Para rubber tree -LRB- or simply, rubber tree -RRB- is the tree which naturally produces rubber.
It is native from tropical areas from South America, in the Amazon -LRB- Brazil -RRB-, but was spread by English farmers to the Far East.
Para Rubber trees belong to the Euphorbiaceae family.
In the wild they may reach heights of 100 to 125 ft -LRB- 40-50 m -RRB- with large cylindrical trunks with or without buttresses.
Crop trees reach a width of about 20 in.
-LRB- 50 cm -RRB-, usually with a short bole, and with a sloped taper.
When trees reach 5-6 years old, they are harvested.
Their trunks are cut just deep enough to tap the vessels without harming the tree 's growth, and the sap is collected in small buckets.
Older trees produce more latex, but they stop producing it after 26-30 years.
It will stop the fire from spreading to the auditorium where the audience sits.
A lamp with a naked\/exposed flame might ignite these flammable gasses, causing an explosion, which might kill people.
In sexual reproduction, the cells used for reproduction, called gametes are different.
Fertilisation needs two different such cells.
If there are many different types of gametes in a species, this would still be called Sexual reproduction.
However, no third gamete type is known in multicellular animals.
Sex can be determined in different ways :
Perhaps the simplest solution is that all organisms produce both male and female gametes.
An organism that does this is usually called hermaphrodite.
This system can be found in some animals, for example snails, and in most flowering plants.
In many cases, there is a specialization of sex.
This means that an organism either produces male gametes or female ones, but not both at the same time.
Most of the time when there is sex determination, the organism is either male, or female, but not both.
There are a few exceptions though.
In the roundworm for example, both sexes are hermaphrodite, and also male.
This is known as androdioecy
Sometimes an organism 's is between male and female.
This is called intersex, and very rare.
Even though such organisms are called hermaphrodites this is not totally correct, because in intersex individuals either the male or the female aspect is sterile.
Intersex individuals are exceptions, they are not the norm.
When there is sex determination there are basically two cases :
The sex is determined through the genes the organism inherits from its parents.
The sex is determined through the environment.
In genetic sex determination, sex chromosomes are usually asymmetrical.
With genetic sex determination, most alleles or genes that influence sexual development are on the same chromosome.
That chromosome is then called sex chromosome.
Because genetic sex determination is determined by matching chromosomes, there are usually the same number of male and female offspring.
HEADING Different systems to genetically determine sex
XX mammals are female and XY are male.
XY sex determination is also found in other organisms, including the common fruit fly and some plants.
Birds have a system that works the other way round : It is called ZW sex-determination system.
The W chromosome has factors for female development.
By default -LRB- if the chromosome is missing -RRB-, the organism will be male.
Sex is a way to reproduce which is common among living things.
It always needs two individuals, usually of the same species.
Sex is used by single-celled organisms, plants and animals.
Sex works by combining genes from more than one source.
Some animals and plants can reproduce either sexually or asexually.
Asexual reproduction is easier than sexual reproduction, but there are good things and bad things about both :
Offspring produced asexually are exactly the same as their parent.
This is a good thing when they need to to a changing environment.
Sometimes this rule does not work.
Sometimes will occur when an individual would have 3 or more X chromosomes, or 2 or more Y chromosomes.
These people usually have Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder -LRB- ADHD -RRB-, Obsessive Compulsive Disorder -LRB- OCD -RRB-, mental retardation, or Schizophrenia.
Sometimes an organism is between male and female.
Intersex individuals are very rare.
As a result of sex determination, the organism is either male, or female.
Because genetic sex determination is determined by a pair of sex chromosomes, there are usually the same number of male and female offspring.
Organisms may have more than one kind of reproduction :
Asexual reproduction : an example is the binary fission of an amoeba.
Sexual reproduction : most plants and animals reproduce by a union of two different sexes.
It holds the hacksaw blade at both ends and has a single handle.
A hacksaw is useful for cutting out openings.
Shovels are fun
no they arnt
PEOPLE WHO USE SHOVELS ARE GAY.
An open end spanner is a tool.
Most animals can make their own vitamin C, but some animals, including guinea pigs, humans, and other primates, can not.
The chemical name for Vitamin C is ascorbic acid.
For example, teas of pine needles are used by arctic people, or the leaves from hardy trees by desert people.
Through history the benefit of plant food for the survival of sieges and long sea voyages was known by wise people.
The first attempt to give this scientific basis was by a ship 's doctor in the British Royal Navy, James Lind, who at sea in May 1747 gave some crew members lemon juice as well as normal food, while others continued on normal food alone.
The results showed that lemons prevented the disease.
Lind 's work was slow to be noticed.
It was 1795 before the British navy adopted lemon or lime juice as standard food at sea.
As well as lemons, limes and oranges ; sauerkraut, salted cabbage, malt, and soup were tried with different effects.
It was believed that only humans got scurvy but in 1907, Alex Holst and Theodore Frohlich, two Norwegian chemists found that guinea pigs could also get it if not given fresh food.
In 1928 the arctic explorer Vilhjalmur Stefansson proved that Eskimo -LRB- Inuit -RRB- people are able to avoid scurvy with almost no plant food in their diet by eating raw meat.
In 1912 the Polish American scientist Casimir Funk formulated the concept of vitamins for the things present in food in small amounts which are essential to health.
He named the unknown thing which prevented scurvy, Vitamin C.
From 1928 to 1933, the Hungarian research team of Joseph L Svirbely and Albert Szent-Gyorgyi, and independently the American Charles Glen King, first seperated vitamin C from food and showed it to be ascorbic acid.
In 1933\/1934, the British chemists Sir Walter Norman Haworth and Sir Edmund Hirst, and independently the Polish Tadeus Reichstein, succeeded in making the vitamin.
It was the first to be made by man.
It then became possible to make lots of vitamin C cheaply in factories.
Haworth was awarded the 1937 Nobel Prize for Chemistry for this work.
In 1959 the American J.J. Burns showed that the reason why some mammals get scurvy is because their livers lack just one enzyme called L-gulonolactone oxidase.
The four other enzymes which synthesise ascorbic acid in mammals are still present but their work is never finished off.
Vitamin C is a vitamin, which is also called ascorbic acid.
Lack of vitamin C can cause a sickness called scurvy, where the gums in the mouth bleed easily and wounds wont heal.
Vitamin C was first isolated in 1928, and in 1932 it was proved to be the thing which stops the sickness called scurvy.
To say something poetically means to transmit information in an artistic way.
Poetry uses the qualities of words, in different ways, to be artistic.
different length and sound -LRB- of words -RRB-
meanings -LRB- of words -RRB-
This muscle pushes the food bolus -LRB- ball -RRB- down into the stomach.
Then the teeth and gums and sometimes even the jaw can become seriously diseased.
Flossing your teeth reduces the danger of these serious diseases of the jaw bone.
These hard-to-cure jaw bone diseases are called `` periodontal disease ''.
Some food is hard, for example meat, apple.
Ground meat is soft and so is apple sauce.
Chicken and turkey meat are hard and full of fibers and very often get trapped between the teeth.
When hard food is trapped between the teeth it can cause discomfort and sometimes pain.
When hard food is pressed by the teeth against the gum then pain is especially likely.
Some people use toothpicks to try to remove trapped food from between the teeth and other people use dental floss to try to do this.
Dental floss can do most things that a toothpick can do but dental floss is much thinner than a toothpick and can thus get to places that most toothpicks can not reach.
The dental pulp is the part in the center of a tooth.
It is made up of living soft tissue and cells.
A pin cushion is a piece of equipment that is used for holding pins and needles.
A pin cushion is small cushion used for holding pins and needles.
Das Lied der Deutschen, the last part is the national anthem of Germany.
The music was written by Joseph Haydn in 1797 as the Imperial country anthem of Austria -LRB- `` Gott erhalte Franz den Kaiser '' - `` God Preserve Our Emp ` ror Francis '' -RRB-.
Fallersleben 's music was very popular in Germany during the second part of the 19th century as a patriotic song, but it became the most-used national pledge in 1919, replacing the German king 's anthem `` Heil Dir im Siegerkranz '' -LRB- which was sung on the melody of God Save The Queen -RRB-.
Not like the new country colors, the Fallersleben pledge was popular with all -LRB- democratic -RRB- people as well with the far right wing groups.
In 1921, an not common `` fourth part '' handeled with the post war situation.
During the time of National Socialist government, only the first section was sung, usually followed by the NSDAP party pledge `` Die Fahne hoch '' -LRB- `` Rise the Flag '' -RRB-.
Because of the first line `` Germany above all '', some thought of the song as country-like, but Fallersleben wrote it when a united Germany still did not exist ; the real meaning is : Germany above the separate states as Prussia, Austria, Saxony and more than 30 others.
In 1949, the President of the new Federal Republic of Germany tried to make a new anthem written by the poet Rudolf Alexander Schröder, but the hard and stupid music sheets were not OK by the people which kept singing Fallersleben 's way.
Finally, President Heuss said that Fallersleben 's poem should be the official song again, but at official times only the third part had to be played.
In Eastern Germany, a new pledge was created by the poet and politic-liking Johannes R. Becher -LRB- `` Auferstanden aus Ruinen '' - `` Resurrected from the Ruins '' -RRB- with a type of song written by Hanns Eisler.
It did not become very popular, and since the beginning of the 1970s the words were no more sung, because of the line `` Germany, our unified fatherland ''.
After the re-uniting of 1990, the Fallersleben song again became the national pledge of united Germany.
In a letter exchanged between President von Weizsäcker and Chancellor Kohl, the third part was made the official part only.
Fallersleben 's music was very popular in Germany during the second part of the 19th century as a patriotic song.
In 1919it was replacing by the German king 's anthem `` Heil Dir im Siegerkranz '' -LRB- which was sung on the melody of God Save The Queen -RRB-.
During the time of Hitler, only the first section was sung, usually followed by the NSDAP party motto `` Die Fahne hoch '' -LRB- `` Rise the Flag '' -RRB-.
Because of the first line `` Germany, Germany above all '', some thought of the song as country-like, but Fallersleben wrote it when a united Germany still did not exist ; the real meaning is : Germany above the separate states as Prussia, Austria, Saxony and more than 30 others, because as he wrote this he lived in exil and missed his home.
The music was written by Joseph Haydn in 1797 as the anthem of Austria.
It was called `` Gott erhalte Franz den Kaiser '' -LRB- `` God Preserve Our Emp ` ror Francis '' -RRB-.
The words which are used today were written by Heinrich Hoffmann von Fallersleben in 1841.
Today, the first line `` Germany, Germany above all '' sounds nationalistic to some people.
Fallersleben dreamt of a united Germany when he wrote it.
At the time, Germany was divided into many small states.
Also, Fallersleben was in Heligoland which was then British.
Fallersleben 's music was very popular in Germany during the second part of the 19th century.
It was not an anthem then, but a patriotic song.
In 1918, it replaced the German king 's anthem `` Heil Dir im Siegerkranz ''.
In 1921, a `` fourth stanza '' was written, which dealed with the situation after the war.
It was not sung very often.
During the time of Hitler, only the first stanza was sung.
This was usually followed by the NSDAP party motto `` Die Fahne hoch '' -LRB- `` Raise the Flag '' -RRB-.
In 1949, the President of the new Federal Republic of Germany tried to make a new song the national anthem.
The song written by poet Rudolf Alexander Schröder was not very popular.
Finally, President Heuss made the third stanza of the Fallersleben song the national anthem.
Das Lied der Deutschen -LRB- The Song of the German people -RRB-, also known as Das Deutschlandlied, -LRB- `` The Song of Germany '' -RRB-, is a song written by Joseph Haydn and Hoffmann von Fallersleben.
A line from this song, `` Einigkeit und Recht und Freiheit '' -LRB- `` Unity and justice and freedom '' -RRB- is now the motto of Germany.
The music was written by Haydn in 1797 as the anthem of Austria.
It was called `` Gott erhalte Franz den Kaiser '' -LRB- `` God protect our Emperor Franz '' -RRB-.
The words which are used today were written by the poet August Heinrich Hoffman von Fallersleben in 1841.
Today, the first line `` Germany, Germany above all '' sounds too strong for some people.
At that time, Germany was not one country, but many small countries.
Also, Fallersleben was in Heligoland, where people spoke German but which was ruled by the British.
This song was not a national anthem then, but a song for people who loved the idea of a strong and united Germany.
In 1918, it replaced the German Imperial anthem `` Heil Dir im Siegerkranz '' -LRB- `` Praise to the war-winner '' -RRB-, when the Emperor Wilhelm lost power at the end of the First World War.
In 1921, a `` fourth stanza '', a new part, was written by Albert Matthai with words about the difficult life in Germany at that time.
This was usually followed by a Nazi party song.
After the Second World War, Germany was divided into two countries.
In 1949, the new Western Germany tried to get a new song for the national anthem.
Another song was chosen, written by poet Rudolf Alexander Schröder.
It was not very popular.
Finally, the third part of the Fallersleben song was made into the national anthem.
In the other part of Germany, the Eastern Germany, the words of poet Johannes R. Becher -LRB- `` Auferstanden aus Ruinen '' - `` Re-built from the Ruins '' -RRB- were used with a song written by Hanns Eisler.
It was not very popular, and from the 1970s the words were not sung, because of the line `` Germany, our unified fatherland ''.
After the East and West Germany united again in 1990, the Fallersleben song again became the national anthem of Germany but only the third part was chosen.
Today, the first part of the song is popular with nationalist extremists.
HEADING German words of the song
HEADING Approximate translation
HEADING First stanza
from the Meuseto the Nemen -LRB- rivers -RRB-
from the Adige -LRB- Italy Italian border -RRB- to the Belt -LRB- the sea near Denmark -RRB-,
HEADING Second stanza
German wine and German songs !
HEADING Third stanza - the German National Anthem
A line from this song, `` Einigkeit und Recht und Freiheit '' -LRB- `` Unity and justice and freedom '' -RRB- is the motto of Germany.
Also, the poet was in Heligoland, where people spoke German but which was ruled by the British.
In 1918, it replaced the German Imperial anthem `` Heil Dir im Siegerkranz '' -LRB- `` Praise to the war-winner '' -RRB-, when the Emperor lost power at the end of the First World War.
In 1921, a `` fourth stanza '', a new part or verse, was written by Albert Matthai with words about the difficult life in Germany at that time.
This was often followed by a Nazi party song.
This part of the song was difficult for some people who were not Germans because it has words describing Germany as a country that included land that was in other countries.
After East and West Germany united again in 1990, the Fallersleben song again became the national anthem of Germany but only the third part is used.
from the Meuse river -LRB- west of Germany -RRB- to the Nemen river -LRB- east of Poland -RRB-,
from the Adige river -LRB- Italian border -RRB- to the Belt -LRB- the sea near Denmark -RRB-.
should continue to get approval
all over the world,
and help us to do great work
for Germany that is like our father ;
Let us all find these
as brothers, with heart and hand.
are the way to happiness.
Do well, German fatherland.
and during bad times more than ever,
only in troubles can love show
how it is strong and true ;
And so the song continues
from parents to children.
and during bad times more than ever. :
It can also mean :
Enzymes are proteins that make chemical reactions happen faster.
They do this by taking the chemicals apart into smaller molecules.
Humans, animals and even plants naturally have enzymes inside them, where they help break down food into simpler things that the living thing 's cells can use.
They can break down fats, carbohydrates and other proteins.
Enzymes are special molecules that speed up chemical reactions in the body.
One example of an enzyme is amylase, which is found in the saliva in our mouths.
Amylase turns starch molecules into smaller molecules called maltose.
These get turned into even smaller glucose molecules later.
Another example is the fatty acids which turn fats into smaller molecules.
Enzyme production -LRB- transcription and translation of enzyme genes -RRB- can be increased or reduced in response to changes in the cell 's environment.
Enzymes can occur in different cellular compartments.
Enzymes can be regulated by their own products.
For example, the end product -LRB- s -RRB- often inhibit one of the first enzymes of the pathway.
This is caused by the acidic conditions which occur inside the host cell 's lysosome.
The tallest mountain in the world is Mount Everest in Asia.
The tallest mountain in North America is Mount McKinley in Alaska in the USA.
Mountains are often thought of as being a hill of over 600 metres -LRB- about 2,000 feet -RRB-, but this thought is not the same in every country.
Mountains are important to the life of lots of things and creatures on Earth, because most of the rivers begin in mountains and carry water from the mountains down.
A mountain 's summit is the highest area on the mountain a mountain climber may reach, but a climber can not reach the peak.
The usual height for a mountain in England is 600 metres.
In England, it is important to have a legal height because people have the `` Right to '' in mountains, but they do not have the right to walk on other people 's land.
Even though mountains are defined by law, many people in England use the word `` hill '' even when they talk about very large mountains.
another is called an upwarped mountain.
Mountains can symbolize hard things to overcome or an obstacle.
It may also symbolize, being brave, and more.
HEADING Form
The forming of a mountain is called orogeny.
Mountains are formed when rock layers are pushed from opposite sides, and they push the crust up.
A mountain range is a large group of mountains beside each other.
There are four ways a mountain may be made :
plutonic
volcanic
The highest mountain in the solar system is the Olympus Mons -LRB- 27 km -RRB- on Mars.
The Cascade Range in Washington, Oregon and northern California is made of volcanoes.
Some of the largest volcanoes are on divergent boundaries, which form the mid-ocean ridges.
The mid-ocean ridges have big volcanic mountain chains that run through the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans.
Folded mountains commonly form along boundaries, where 2 continents meet.
These long mountain chains also show lots of signs of folding.
Plateau mountains are formed a bit like folded mountains.
They are large areas of flat topped rocks that have been lifted high above the crust by continental plates.
Fault block mountains are formed when parts of the Earth 's crust has been broken off into large block mountains.
They are also formed when two blocks of land rise above or fall down leaving its middle part behind, and when magma pushes up and forces top layers of rock up with it.
Domed mountains, although have broken and move up as a ` chunk '.
Compilers turn code in a language into code in another language or machine code.
Machine code is sometimes called native code when referring to things that work only on some computers.
So all other computer languages are just machine code with easy to read -LRB- simplified -RRB- rules.
So all other computer languages are just machine code with simpler rules.
Note : 42 is hexadecimal for 66
HEADING Notes and References
Different orders of 1s and 0s tell the computer to do different things.
Note : 42 is hexadecimal -LRB- base 16 -RRB- for 66
Machine code can also be written in base 16 -LRB- hexadecimal -RRB- or base 8 -LRB- octal -RRB-.
So assembly like `` add 66 '' could be in machine code like the base 16 machine code instruction `` 01 42, '' if `` 01 '' is the opcode for `` add. ''
Note : 42 is base 16 for 66
All computer languages are just machine code with simpler rules.
Machine code, are 1s and 0s.
They tell the computer what to do.
Machine code is also called machine language.
All other computer languages are just machine code with much simpler rules.
This code is the lowest level of software.
It is written in binary, but it is usually written in base 16 or base 8, and later it is converted.
Their order tells the computer what to do.
Assembler languages are easier to read versions of the opcodes ; they have a syntax that is relatively easy to read.
Using a number of switches.
This generates a sequence of 1 and 0.
This was used in the early days of computing.
Using a Hex editor.
This allows to use opcodes instead of the number of the command.
Assembler languages are easier to read versions of the opcodes.
They have a syntax that is relatively easy to read.
This allows programs that use abstraction.
These programs are translated into machine code.
Java programs are first translated into bytecode.
Then it is translated into machine language when it is executed.
All other kinds of software need to be translated into machine code before they can be used.
We use a thermometer to find how hot or cold a thing, person or animal is -LRB- its temperature -RRB-.
HEADING Medical thermometers
In the past, the traditional thermometer was a mercury-in-glass thermometer.
People put the end of this in their mouth -LRB- oral temperature -RRB-, under their arm, or in their rectum -LRB- rectal temperature -RRB-.
In some countries this is the normal method today.
It is only possible to find oral temperatures on patients who can hold the thermometer correctly in their mouth.
So small children can not use this method.
It is also a problem for people with a cough or people who are vomiting.
In the past it was a big problem, because mercury thermometers needed a long time to find the temperature.
Today, digital thermometers are faster.
If a person drinks something hot or cold, wait before testing their oral temperature.
When finding a person 's rectal temperature, it helps to use a cream on the thermometer.
Rectal temperatures are the most exact method.
In some countries -LRB- for example the United States -RRB- people think it is embarrassing -LRB- they feel uncomfortable -RRB- to use them for people older than two or three.
In other countries it is normal for children and adults -LRB- adults are not children -RRB- to use rectal thermometers.
Doctors like the rectal method best for children.
In the 1990s, people in many countries thought mercury thermometers were too risky.
Today they use electronic thermometers.
Sometimes they use thermometers with liquids, but not with mercury.
There are other kinds of medical thermometers : tympanic thermometers test the temperature of the tympan -LRB- the eardrum -RRB- with infrared ; band thermometers test a person 's temperature on the fron of their head.
HEADING Sorts of thermometers we often use
In English, the order of the words is very important.
For example, the sentences `` Is it ? ''
and `` It is. ''
mean different things.
In Japanese a lot of these differences are made by adding or changing the endings of words.
So a Japanese word has a stem called a `` body '', and additional parts -LRB- called `` suffixes '' -RRB-.
Japanese -LRB- -RRB- `` Nihon-go '' or `` Nippon-go '' in Japanese -RRB- is the language spoken on the island nation of Japan, in East Asia.
The third system, called kanji -LRB- -RRB-, where every word or idea has a picture character taken from Chinese.
All three systems can be seen written in a sentence.
Kanji helps keep sentences clear, as many Japanese words sound alike but their may kanji look different, and it also usually shortens the written length.
Written Japanese also has no spaces, so kanji can help to show where words are in a sentence.
Hiragana is present in nearly every sentence, because it is used for articles -LRB- `` the '', `` a '', etc -RRB- and suffixes -LRB- endings -RRB- for many words.
Katakana is less common, and often stands for non-Japanese nouns -LRB- -LRB- basu -RRB- for `` bus '' -RRB-, though it can also be part of verbs or adjectives, or other parts of the language.
Kanji helps keep sentences clear, as many Japanese words sound the same but their may kanji look different, and it can also make the sentence shorter.
Hiragana is used in nearly every sentence, because it is used for articles -LRB- `` the '', `` a '', etc -RRB- and suffixes -LRB- endings -RRB- for many words.
Katakana is less common, and often stands for non-Japanese nouns -LRB- like -LRB- basu -RRB- for `` bus '' -RRB-, though it can also be part of verbs or adjectives, or other parts of the language.
This is usually done by adding spices.
This is usually done by adding spices, though in processed food there are often times artificial flavors.
This is usually done by adding spices, though in processed food there are often times artificial -LRB- fake -RRB- flavors.
Flavor -LRB- US English -RRB- or Flavour -LRB- British English -RRB- is the quality of anything which affects the taste.
Flavor can also be used to describe the act of adding a taste alteration -LRB- to change the taste -RRB- to something.
This is usually done by adding spices or sugars, though in processed food there are often times artificial -LRB- fake -RRB- flavors.
It comes close to the Earth every 75 or 76 years.
It will return in 2061.
It is the first comet humans were able to predict that it would return.
It actually observes less than 20% of the time.
Golf is a game played in an open field where the golfer plays his golf ball into a hole by using different types of clubs -LRB- golf instruments -RRB-.
The book Rules of Golf reads `` The Game of Golf consists in playing a ball from the teeing ground into the hole by a stroke or successive strokes in accordance with the Rules. ''
In golf, a golfer plays a number of holes in a given order.
18 holes played in an order controlled by the golf course design normally make up a game.
On a nine-hole course, two nine-hole rounds make up a normal game.
The two common forms of playing golf are match play and stroke play.
In match play, two golfers -LRB- or two teams -RRB- play holes one at a time.
The golfer with the lower number of strokes -LRB- number of times the golfer used to get his ball in the hole -RRB- wins that hole.
If the two have the same number of strokes, the hole is `` halved '' -LRB- drawn -RRB-.
The golfer that has the greatest number of holes wins.
In stroke play, the golfer -LRB- or team -RRB- with the smallest number of strokes all together wins.
There are different forms of these rules, some given in the `` Rules of Golf '' making them `` official. ''
The three different clubs are woods, irons, and putters.
A golfer uses about 3 woods, about 10 irons, and a putter.
The rules do not let the golfer use over 14 clubs in a game.
Golfers call the four biggest tournaments in professional golf `` majors '' and they play them at nearly the same time every year.
Some people use this word instead of religion, while others see a difference.
Catherine Callbeck becomes Premier of Prince Edward Island, becoming the first woman to be elected a Premier -LRB- prime minister of a province -RRB- in Canada.
1992 -LRB- MCMXCII -RRB- was a leap year starting on Wednesday.
Full genome sequencing has shown that 6.5 million years of evolution as separate species, the difference between human and chimpanzee DNA are just ten times greater than those between tow unrelated humans.
In comparison, they are 10 times less that those between rats and mice.
Between 95% and 99% of DNA between humans and chimpanzees are identical.
ISBN 0-520-20535-9 http://www.2think.org/bonobo.shtml
Estimates are that about 5 million years ago, humans and chimpanzees started to evolve differently, and about 8 million years ago humans and gorillas started to evolve differently.
In 2001, a hominid skull was discovered in Chad.
It is about 7 million years old, and has been classifired as Sahelanthropus tchadensis.
This may indicate that the two lines of evolution diverged earlier.
People who believe in this theory think that life is too intelligence to have evolved all by itself, and that a being created humans.
Humans are part of the animal kingdom.
They are mammals, which means that they give birth to their young ones, rather than laying eggs like reptiles or birds, and the female humans are able to feed their babies with breast milk.
Humans belong to the order of primates.
Apes like gorillas and gibbons are also primates.
Scientists have examined the genes of humans and chimpanzees, and compared their DNA.
The studies showed that between 95% and 99% of the DNA of humans and chimpanzees is the same.
By using genome sequencing, scientists have compared :
The difference between two humans that are related
The difference between two humans that are not related
The difference between a human and a chimpanzee
The difference between two other animals that look like each other - rats and mice
The studies showed that, after 6.5 million years of evolution as separate species, between 95% and 99% of the DNA of humans and chimpanzees is the same.
The difference between a human and a chimpanzee was about ten times greater than the difference between two unrelated humans.
When this difference is compared with the difference between the DNA of mice and rats, the difference between a mouse and a rat is ten times greater than the difference between a human and a chimpanzee.
One way that scientists use to explain the similarity between humans and other primates such as Chimpanzees is the Theory of Evolution.
In the Theory of Evolution, it is thought that humans, chimpanzees, and gorillas have a common type of ancestor primate.
The skull may show that date at which humans started to evolve -LRB- develop differently -RRB- from other primates.
earlier.
Humans are part of a genus called homonidae -LRB- or homonids -RRB-.
This comes from the Latin homo for human.
Thousands of years ago, there used to be other types of hominids on Earth.
They were like modern humans, but not the same.
Homo sapiens are the only type of hominids who are alive today.
The earliest-known fossils of genus homo have been named Homo habilis -LRB- handy man -RRB-.
Homo hablilis is thought to have lived about 2.2 to 1.7 million years ago.
Humans have a complex brain, which makes them able to use language, make ideas, and feel emotions.
In jungles it rains a lot.
Scientists think that more animals and plants live in the jungles than everywhere else.
More solid things will have a dark shadow, things that are more clear have a lighter shadow, and transparent things will have none or very little shadow.
Air near the grounds surface is heated by conduction.
It then grows bigger and goes up, forming strong upwards air currents.
When temperature of the rising air falls to dew point, water vapor shrinks into thick cloud and forms convection rain.
Relief rain usually occurs along coastal areas where a line of hills runs along to the coast.
January 7 - Russia shuts off all gas to Europe through Ukraine.
Prime Minister Vladimir Putin publicly supports the move and suggests that international observers be brought into the dispute.
January 12 - The Electronic System for Travel Authorization becomes necessary for travelers from Visa Waiver Program countries before travel to the United States.
January 13 - Ethiopian military forces start to go home from Somalia, where they have tried to keep order for nearly two years.
January 17 - Israel declares a cease-fire against Hamas, even though Hamas does not.
This ends Israel 's attacks after 22 days of fighting in Gaza.
Union of Congolese Patriots leader Thomas Lubanga is claimed to have used children to make war.
Its symbol is e & minus ;.
Electrons have the smallest electrical charge.
When they move, they generate an electric current.
The measurement given off by a galvanometer is different from the measurement given off by an electrometer.
HEADING ` Seeing ' an electron
In laboratory conditions, the interactions of individual electrons can be observed by means of particle detectors, which allow measurement of specific properties such as energy, spin and charge.
Grupen, Claus 1999.
`` Physics of Particle Detection ''.
AIP Conference Proceedings, Instrumentation in Elementary Particle Physics, VIII.
Istanbul : Dordrecht, D. Reidel Publishing Company.
3 -- 34.
doi :10.1063 \/ 1.1361756.
In one instance a Penning trap was used to contain a single electron for a period of 10 months.
The magnetic moment of the electron was measured to a precision of eleven digits, which, in 1980, was a greater accuracy than for any other physical constant.
The first video images of an electron 's energy distribution were captured by a team at Lund University in Sweden, February 2008.
The scientists used extremely short flashes of light, called attosecond pulses, which allowed an electron 's motion to be observed for the first time.
The distribution of the electrons in solid materials can also be visualized.
HEADING Anti-particle
The antiparticle of the electron is called a positron.
This is identical to the electron, but carries electrical and other charges of the opposite sign.
When an electron collides with a positron, they may scatter off each other or be totally annihilated, producing a pair -LRB- or more -RRB- of gamma ray photons.
An electron is a very small piece of matter and energy.
Chile is a well educated country.
About 95% of Chileans are white.
The majority of people are Roman Catholic -LRB- 70% -RRB-.
About 95% of Chileans are Caucasian, mostly Spanish.
About 10% are Protestant, and there are some who practice Judaism as well.
A nuclear war is when two or more groups or countries fight with nuclear weapons.
It is a war where the fighting is not done mainly with soldiers fighting battles, but instead through airplanes and missiles built to carry nuclear bombs to the enemy.
Many people fear that there will be a large nuclear war some day.
The human race has built enough nuclear weapons and carrying devices over the last sixty years, that a nuclear war using all nuclear bombs on Earth would probably kill nearly every human being on the planet.
Even if the direct explosions did not kill everyone, the fallout and radiation that always come with this kind of warfare would kill many more people.
It is thought that a true large-scale nuclear war could create an artificial nuclear winter by blocking out the sun.
Only two nuclear bombs were ever used in a war.
Both bombs fell on Japanese cities.
The first on Hiroshima and the second on Nagasaki.
The bombings took place near the end of World War II.
Back then, the United States was the only country with nuclear weapons.
Today, nuclear warfare is likely to involve nuclear weapons on both sides of the war.
It is unlikely that a nuclear conflict can be limited to a small-scale affair.
The number of nations that can make nuclear attacks gets larger every few years, and so far, only the threat of `` mutually assured destruction '' -LRB- MAD -RRB- has forced nuclear-armed nations to avoid causing a nuclear war.
The greatest threats of nuclear war were in the Cold War days of confrontation between the world 's two superpowers, when the United States of America and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics both feared and armed against such a war launched by the other side.
As Nintendo 's mascot, many people think that Mario is the most famous video game character of all time.
The Mario series of video games has sold more than 200 million copies, making it the the best selling game series of all time.
Mario was the first video game character to get a wax figure in the Hollywood Wax Museum in 2003.
In 1990, a national survey showed that more kids knew Mario than Mickey Mouse.
Since his creation, Mario has become a pop culture icon having been in many television shows, comic books, and in a feature film.
He has been on lunch boxes, t-shirts, magazines, commercials, in candy form, on Shampoo bottles, cereal, badges, and as a plush toy.
Nintendo of Japan made a 60-minute anime film starring Mario and his friends in 1986, but this film has never been released outside of Japan.
had a live-action series of skits starring former WWF manager `` Captain '' Lou Albano as Mario and Danny Wells as Luigi.
Mario 's legacy is recognized by Guinness World Records, who awarded the Nintendo Mascot and his games seven records in the Guinness World Records : Gamer 's Edition 2008.
In a poll conducted in 2008, Mario was voted as the most popular video game character in Japan.
Video games are electronic games played on a video screen -LRB- normally a television -RRB-.
There have been many types of consoles, which are the electronic units that allow you to play video games.
Some of the first were the Atari 2600 and Nintendo Entertainment System which were sold in the 1980s.
New video games are the Xbox and PlayStation 2.
The best selling video game console of all time is the PlayStation 2, made by Sony.
You can play portable video games anywhere.
The most popular portable video games are the Nintendo DS and the PlayStation Portable.
You can even watch movies on the PlayStation Portable !
New video games are the Xbox, PlayStation 2, and Gamecube.
There has been some arguments over the Violence and Sex in Video Games.
For more information see Video Game Controvesey.
The competetive use of video games is called electronic sports.
HEADING Current generation consoles
This is a high powered xbox.
Being the first next generation console to hit the markets, it has had a big advantage over its competitors.
One of the most popular portable video games consoles is the Nintendo Game Boy.
It was the first 7th generation console to come out.
An oboe is a double reeded wind instrument, larger than a piccolo, smaller than a bassoon.
Adelaide is a city in Australia.
It has a population of a bit more than a million people.
Yoshi is one of the more famous characters in the Mario series.
Yoshi is also featured a lot in Mario ; he is the subject of toys, shirts, and figures.
Most tires today do not have a tube inside of them.
A city 's population is the number of humans living in that city.
In areas with a high population density, people are close to each other.
In areas with a low population density, people are far away from each other.
At a certain temperature -LRB- called the freezing point, 0 Centigrade, 32 Fahrenheit.
Centigrade and Fahrenheit are systems used to read temperature -RRB-, snow melts away and becomes water.
Sometimes, the snow will melt very fast and become water vapor, which is water in the air.
This is called sublimation.
The opposite where water vapor becomes snow is called deposition.
Snow is needed for some winter sport activities like skiing and sledding -LRB- slalom -RRB-.
When clouds are full they pour out rain but in cold weather ice crystals fall out as soft little flakes that are called snowflakes.
The word snow comes from an older version of English from a long time ago called Old English.
Back then, it was called snaw
At a certain temperature -LRB- called the freezing point, 0 Celsius, 32 Fahrenheit : Celsius and Fahrenheit are systems used to read temperature -RRB-, snow melts away and becomes water.
People can also play with snow and build things out of it, such as snowmen and snowballs.
In some companies, the people who are workers for the company elect -LRB- vote for -RRB- their company president.
All the president 's ministerial appointments have to be vetted by Congress -LRB- parliament -RRB- and Congress may have an opposition majority.
He said that he changed his mind to avoid dying.
The water then collects into lakes, oceans, aquifers or is intercept by plants.
A contract is an agreement or promise that the law can enforce.
The law will enforce some agreements but not others.
For example, in most places, if a parent promises to take a child to get ice cream, the law will not enforce that promise as a legal contract.
The legal rules about which promises are enforced by the law can be different in different places -LRB- or jurisdictions -RRB-, but a contract is usually enforced only if it is made by people or groups who want it to be enforced and who know what they are doing.
Sometimes, a contract is written down and signed by the agreeing to it, but it does not always need to be.
For example, when people take a job, they will sometimes sign a contract with their employers.
If someone breaks a contract, another person might sue him or her.
In a lawsuit about a contract, the court will look at the contract, listen to what the people who made the contract say about it, and then make a decision about what the contract means.
All humans are mortal -LRB- They die at some point -RRB-
land reads like `` and '', meaning both of the two.
lor reads like `` or '', meaning at least one of the two.
Rightarrow reads like `` implies '', or `` If... then... ''.
lnot reads like `` not '', or `` it is not the case that... ''.
This is the same example using logic symbols :
Finally, those talking about logic talk about logic clauses.
A clause is simply something like `` Aristole is human '' or `` all humans are motzal ''.
A popular example, given by Aristotle :
land is read like `` and '', meaning both of the two.
lor is read like `` or '', meaning at least one of the two.
Rightarrow is read like `` implies '', or `` If... then... ''.
lnot is read like `` not '', or `` it is not the case that... ''.
A clause is simply something like `` Aristole is human '' or `` all humans are mortal ''.
Clauses have a truth-value ; they are either true or false, but not both.
Mistakes in logic are called `` fallacies ''
-LRB- for example : `` It rains, or it does not rain '' -RRB-
Parentheses -LRB-, -RRB- are added for clarity ; this means that what is in parenthesis should be looked at before the things outside.
The goal of Communism is for workers to take control of factories and business and to share things more fairly.
People will do their best and use only what they need.
This is an old idea, but it became popular after the French Revolution and other popular movements in Europe in the early 1800s.
In 1848 Karl Marx and Freidrich Engels wrote Manifesto of the Communist Party, a short pamphlet with the basic ideas and principles of many communists.
Marx 's ideas were used by different groups and individuals, and in 1917 Lenin and Trotsky led the Russian Bolshevik Group in the Russian Revolution which shook the world and established the first workers ' state, which became known as the USSR -LRB- Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or the Soviet Union -RRB-.
In 1924 Lenin died, and after a power struggle Josef Stalin became the leader of the Soviet Union.
In the 1930 's he proclaimed that the USSR was a Socialist Country.
Stalin disagreed with Karl Marx 's ideas.
Marx, and Lenin, said that a socialist revolution must happen everywhere in the world, and that ` Socialism in one Country ' was impossible.
But Stalin 's ideas became known as Communism, and `` Stalinist '' governments became known in ` the West ' as Communist Countries.
During the 1900s, many people tried to make countries become ` Communist. '
Many other people tried to stop Communism.
This struggle became known as the ` Cold War. '
Vladimir Lenin thought that there had to be a group of hard-working revolutionaries to lead a socialist revolution worldwide and create a communist society.
Leon Trotsky argued that socialism had to be international.
He acted against Stalin after Lenin 's death in 1924.
He was exiled by Stalin and in 1940 he was hunted down and murdered by a Stalinist agent in Mexico.
Some communists -LRB- like Leon Trotsky -RRB- said that Stalin was n't a real communist, because the original idea of communism needed workers ' democracy and Stalin was opposed to democracy.
Mao 's version of communism is usually called Maoism.
The Soviet Union was the first country to make its goal the creation of a Communism.
But the country never became Communist in the way that Marx described.
It attempted to transform society into socialism, but it failed.
This can be confusing, because many people called the Soviet Union a Communist country, even though many socialists and communists do n't want the kind of `` socialism '' that existed in the Soviet Union.
They call this kind of communism Stalinism.
It is also a description of how some countries have been governed, for example China and the former Soviet Union.
Some say this is because of sanctions made by the United States which mean most countries are forced to not help North Korea ; the US hopes this will collapse the North Korean regime quickly.
American troops led by Douglas MacArthur and troops from many other countries were sent in by the United Nations because the United States wanted to the communist political system from spreading.
Latvia 's neighbors to the east are the countries Russia and Belarus.
Latvia is split into four parts called Kurzeme, Vidzeme, Zemgale, and Latgale.
People from Latvia are called Latvians.
They speak the Latvian language, which is a little like the Lithuanian language, though not close enough to be understood.
HEADING History
Latvia was part of the Soviet Union between 1940 and 1991, when it became an independent country again.
Latvia was invited to join the European Union at a decision made in Copenhagen on 13 December 2002, together with nine other European countries.
On 20 September 2003 66.9% of the Latvians voted in support of joining, and on 1 May 2004 Latvia became a member of the EU.
Latvia has been a NATO member since 29 March, 2004.
Latvia was settled by the Baltic tribes thousands of years ago.
They mainly fished, hunted, and traded.
German traders and crusaders came to Latvia at the end of the 12th century.
Latvians lost control of their homes.
Over the next 800 years, Germans, Danes, Swedes, Poles, and Russians all invaded Latvia.
Latvia finally became independent in 1918.
The Soviet Union invaded Latvia during World War II and killed or took away many of its people to Siberia and other places far away from their homes.
Nazi Germany invaded and killed nearly all of Latvia 's Jews.
The Soviet Union then invaded again and occupied Latvia until 1991, when the Soviet Union fell apart and Latvia became an independent country again.
In Copenhagen on 13 December 2002, Latvia and nine other countries were invited to join the European Union.
On 20 September 2003, Latvians held an election to vote on joining.
Two thirds of Latvians voted to join, and on 1 May 2004 Latvia became a member of the EU.
Lithuania began to turn into a country in the 7th -- 9th centuries from Baltic nations group.
The Baltics, the ancestors of Lithuanians and Latvians, came to area between Nemunas, Daugava rivers and the Baltic sea, from a supposed original homeland of the Proto-Indo-Europeans.
The traditional date of the beginning of the country is 1236 when the Battle of iauliai -LRB- Battle of Sun -RRB- took place and was won by the Lithuanians.
The country was taken over by the Russian Empire in 1795.
It got back its independence on the February 16, 1918.
It was taken over by Germany from 1941-1944 and then the Soviet Union from 1944-1990.
Lithuania re-declared its independence on March 11, 1990.
Currently Lithuania is an independent, semi-presidential, democratic republic.
Lithuania is a country in northern EuropeUnited Nations Geographical region and composition on the eastern shore of the Baltic Sea.
Lithuania is a member of the European Union, NATO, and several other organizations.
About 3,500,000 people live there.
The official language is Lithuanian which is spoken by more than 82% of the people.
The colors of the Lithuanian flag are yellow -LRB- at the top -RRB-, for the sun, green -LRB- in the middle -RRB-, for the fields, and red -LRB- at the bottom -RRB-, for the blood of Lithuanians fighting for its independence.
About 80% of people in Lithuania are Lithuanians.
There are large national minorities :
The Poles, -LRB- 6.3% -RRB-, mainly live in Vilnius County, which was taken over by Poland in 1920.
The Russians, -LRB- 5.1% -RRB-, mainly live in Vilnius County and Utena County, as workers at the Ignalina nuclear plant.
The Belorussians, -LRB- 1.1% -RRB-, most of them live in Vilnius County.
Lithuanian is spoken by 82% of the people and it is the only official language.
Polish is used mostly in Vilnius County where Polish politicians are elected to represent the Polish minority.
The documents and street names must be in Lithuanian.
The biggest cities are Vilnius, 542,287 people, Kaunas, 358,107 people, and Klaip da, 185,899 people.
As one of the most densely populated countries in the world it has many cities and towns that merge into each other, of which the largest is possibly Sliema.
When the part of the Universe which we can see today started, it was very small.
Everything in this part of the Universe was much closer together than today.
It was also very hot and photons -LRB- particles of light -RRB- were moving in different directions.
Light moves very fast, but the light speed is limited and the Universe was expanding very fast.
Think of two ants on the surface of an expanding ball.
One ant starts moving towards another, but the ball itself is also expanding.
After a long time the ball starts expanding more slowly.
Now what can scientists do if they want to talk about the shape of the ball itself ?
Is it really like the surface of a ball ?
Or is it rather an infinite flat plane ?
Or is it like a cylinder ?
To talk about the shape of the Universe, scientists want to forget that the Universe is expanding.
So they separate the shape from time and pretend that the Universe is not expanding.
They remember that, really, the Universe is expanding, but they write this in a variable called the scale factor.
Then, the distances they talk about, while putting the scale factor to the side, are called comoving distances.
When they think about the Universe using comoving distance, they think of the Universe as not expanding.
This way, some calculations are easier.
Lisbon, the capital of Portugal, is a city.
There are about two million people living there.
Lisbon is on the River Tagus.
It has a pleasant climate and has about 220 days of sunshine each year.
There are many beautiful beaches close to the city.
There are also many seafood restaurants, historical sites and monuments.
Marseille is the third largest.
It is situated about 150km west of the Italian border.
HEADING Early years
He was born in Connecticut.
He went to school at Yale University, which is famous for a high standard of education.
He was not a very good student, and was arrested several times for drunken pranks.
He lived briefly in Midland, Texas on a ranch.
HEADING Texas Air National Guard
He joined the National Guard during the Vietnam War, but did not fight in Vietnam.
HEADING 2000 election
During the 2000 United States presidential election, Florida was a state where the election results were not clear.
It took over a month to know who won.
The Supreme Court made a decision to stop recounting votes, and at that time Bush was declared the winner.
Many people still do n't agree with the result of that election.
HEADING 2004 election
In the 2004 United States presidential election, Bush won again.
Massachusetts Senator John Kerry, a Democrat, also ran, but did not win.
HEADING Iraq
After the attacks of September 11th, Bush ordered an invasion of Afghanistan.
Later he wanted something done about Iraq.
Bush asked the United Nations to take away the Weapons of Mass Destruction from Iraq.
The United States Army entered Iraq on March 20, 2003 and took control of the country.
Saddam Hussein was captured and is now on trial for War Crimes.
As of today, no weapons of mass destruction have been found.
As a result of the invasion of Iraq 2100 + Americans are dead and 30,000 + Iraqis are dead.
Free elections are being held for the first time in the country, but continuing violence threatens to cause a civil war.
People disagree about the war in Iraq.
Many people think this is a good war, but other people think that it is a bad war.
HEADING Bushisms
Bush has repeatedly had trouble with his public speaking.
His many and varied mistakes have lead to the formation of this new phrase.
Many sites on the Internet collect these ` bushisms ' for their humor value.
Massachusetts Senator John Kerry, a Democrat, ran against him.
He joined the Texas Air National Guard -LRB- part of the United States National Guard -RRB- during the Vietnam War, but did not fight in Vietnam.
These mistakes have led to the creation of the phrase `` Bushism ''.
He is a Republican.
During Bush 's presidency, Dick Cheney was his Vice President.
George Walker Bush is from Midland, Texas.
These tax cuts, in addition to spending increases, made it so that the government spent more money than it took in, and it had to borrow money.
Bush tried to do many things to prevent another terrorist attack from happening.
He created the Department Of Homeland Security, a government department which tries to prevent terrorist attacks from happening and responds to emergencies such as floods or diseases.
He signed the Patriot Act -LRB- which allowed the government to listen to people 's phone calls so it can track down terrorists which try to communicate with each other -RRB-.
Many people were against it because it took away freedom from people and many people were for it because it was for the safety of the country.
This sparked the debate of whether or not it was worth it to give up some freedom for safety.
Most people liked Bush during his first term, but during his second term, most people disliked him.
Bush signed a bill into law which would gave $ 600 to every American citizen, hoping that people would go out and spend the money so that it would prevent a recession -LRB- a bad economy -RRB- from happening.
Bush enacted a 700 billion dollar bailout which would give money to corporations -LRB- large businesses -RRB- to prevent them from being bankrupt and to try to prevent the recession from getting worse.
During the last few days of his presidency, Bush delivered his farewell address, stated his achievements of having two dictatorships -LRB- Afghanistan and Iraq -RRB- turned into democracies -LRB- where people can vote for their leaders, and declared that seven years after September 11th, 2001, the United States never faced another terrorist attack.
On January 20th, 2009, his presidency ended.
Organic compounds are compounds with carbon.
HEADING Kinds of Organic Compounds
There are many ways to sort organic compounds.
There are natural ones, and synthetic ones.
They can also be described with functional groups, which are small patterns of connected atoms, which occur in many different orders in many places.
One way of showing the molecule is by drawing its structural formula.
Because molecules can have complicated structures, people have made ways to show them in simple language.
The latest way of showing organic compounds is the line-angle formula.
This is based on Carbon atoms ; each atom, including carbon atoms, is connected by a line to each atom that it is covalently bonded to.
One line means a single bond, two lines means a double bond and so on.
Because there is in an infinite number of possible organic compounds, language is needed to give a unique name to each one.
The International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry, or IUPAC, made a system for doing this.
Although an IUPAC name makes every single possible molecule unique, the names are often long and complicated, so in everyday life, trivial names -- unofficial but widely understood names -- are used, such as the Trivial names Paracetamol, Tylenol, and Acetaminophen, which are used for a compound whose IUPAC name is N - -LRB- 4-hydroxyphenyl -RRB- acetamide.
HEADING Natural Compounds
Natural compounds are compounds made by plants or animals.
These could also be made in a lab, but many of these compounds are taken from nature because it is easier and less expensive to do it that way.
Some kinds of natural compounds are most Sugars, carbohydrates, many antibiotics like Penicillin and Amoxicillin, and Octane, which is the most important ingredient in gasoline.
HEADING Synthetic Compounds
Synthetic Compounds are those made by people.
Sometimes, this is done by taking something natural and changing the molecule in a small way, such as making glycerine from vegetable oils.
Other compounds are synthesized in long, complicated reactions with many steps.
Plastics are sometimes mostly natural, and other kinds are very hard to make.
HEADING Seeing Structure
Since a compound is often first discovered in nature instead of being made on purpose in a lab, people may know the compound exists, and even know what it does sometimes, but not know exactly what atoms it is made of and how it is arranged.
There are several ways of taking an unknown compound and finding out this structure :
Mass Spectrometry
X-Ray Diffraction
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy
Infrared Spectroscopy
Natural gas is often found in the ground together with petroleum.
HEADING See also
Fossil fuel
HEADING External links
History of using natural gas from the U.S. Department of Energy
Sancra, Scotty, and Brad.
are doing a report on natural gas.
Sandra, Scotty, and Brad are doing a report on natural gas.
You come to my property.
and you kick my dog
The energy unit used for everyday electricity is the kilowatt-hour -LRB- kW & middot ; h -RRB-.
One kW & middot ; h is equivalent to 3,600,000 J -LRB- 3600 kJ or 3.6 MJ -RRB-.
Getting around
Xenon is a noble gas.
This group of gases are very unreactive.
Noble gases are very unreactive.
The speed that a photon travels at.
The Theory of General Relativity says that nothing can go faster than this.
When an object approches light speed, its mass energy levels would become so high that it would need all of the energy in the universe and more to make it go faster than the speed of light.
Even so, many studies have been done on the possibility of Warp Drive, Wormholes, and Higher Dimensional forms of travel that could go faster than this.
Going faster than the speed of light is called breaking the light speed barrier.
Tokyo was burned up by fires started by the Great Kanto Earthquake in 1923.
It was also badly damaged by bombs during World War II.
It costs more than zinc.
We use materials to make things.
When we speak about material, we mean physical substances.
We call cloth, for making clothes, material.
Raw materials are materials before we process them -LRB- change them into something different -RRB-.
For example, a writer looks for material -LRB- ideas and facts -RRB- when writing a book.
The brain is a part of the body that allows us to make sense of the world around us and to change our behavior in response top it.
All the information about the world gathered by our five senses is sent through nerves into the brain, allowing us to see, hear, smell, taste and feel things.
The brain processes this information so that we can experience it as as pictures, sounds, and so on.
The brain also uses nerves to tell the body what to do, for example by telling muscles to move or our heart to beat faster.
A human brain accounts for about 2% of the body 's weight, but it uses about 20% of its energy.
It has about 50-100 billion -LRB- one billion = 1,000,000,000 -RRB- nerve cells -LRB- also called neurons -RRB-, along with at least 10 times as many support cells, called glia.
The job of neurons is to receive and send information to and from the rest of the body, while glia provide nutrients and divert blood flow to the neurons, allowing them to do their job.
The human brain also has a very large surface -LRB- called cortex -RRB- for its size, which is possible because it is very wrinkled.
It is the source of consciousness, but it also controls basic body actions, like breathing, that happens without a person realizing it.
IF U LIKE IT UP THE BUM THEN GIVE TANMAY A CALL NOW ON 07886187227
Kishan loves...
Kishan loves jawads mum
IF U LIKE IT UP THE BUM THEN GIVE JAWAD A CALL
IF U LIKE IT UP THE BUM THEN GIVE KAY A CALL
IF YOU HAVE A BIG WILLY AND WANT SOME ACTION GIVE JAWAD A CALL ON 555 I LUV BIG DICK
CHRIS LEWIS LOVES COCK
Motor neurones carry cum from the samie 's willy to kay 's a hole and other effector organs
Motor neurones carry signals from the CNS to muscles and other effector organ
KAY LOVES COCK AND TANMAY
Tanmay FROM BEDFORD SCHOOL IN YR 10 thinks balls smell so good so good and likes to suck on KAY
JON FROM BEDFORD SCHOOL IN YR 10 thinks balls smell so good so good and likes to suck on KAY
Ian FROM BEDFORD SCHOOL IN YR 10 thinks balls smell so good so good and likes to suck on KAY
Motor neurones carry signals from the CNS to muscles, motor neurons are connected to the relay neurons.
Efferent neurons transport signals from the central nervous system to the effector cells.
Motor neurones carry signals from the CkkajjdNS to muscles, motor neurons are connected to the relay neurons.
Sensory neurons carry signals from sense organs to the spinal cord and brain
Relay neurons carry messages from one part of the CNS to another
Motor neurons carry signals from the CNS to muscles, motor neurons are connected to the relay neurons.
Sensory neurons carry signals from sense organs to the spinal cord and brain.
Relay neurons carry messages from one part of the CNS to another.
A line has no width.
A line is made up of an infinite number of points.
A line is a type of geometric figure.
HEADING Line Segments
An example of a straight line segment :
HEADING Straight and Curved Lines
A line is made up of an endless number of points.
For example, if a line has a point named `` A '' on the line and a point named `` B '' on the line, then the line can be called either `` AB '' or `` BA ''.
Sometimes, lines are also named with just one letter ; for example, line A.
Parallel : Two lines are parallel if they never touch.
Concurrent : Two lines are concurrent if they touch on one point.
Perpendicular : Two lines are perpendicular if they make four right angles where they touch.
Skew : Two lines are skew if they are not parallel but they never touch.
This means that there are many H + protons in the compound.
The opposite of an acid is a base.
Those acids mixed in water are called aqueous solutions of acids.
Aqueous means `` in water. ''
There are concentrated acids -LRB- strong acids -RRB- and dilute acids -LRB- weak acids -RRB-.
A concentrated aqueous solution of acid contains more acid than a dilute solution.
Concentrated acids can be dangerous.
Acids have a sour taste when mixed with water.
Aqueous solutions of acids conduct -LRB- carry -RRB- electricity.
They change metals more reactive than copper into new chemical compounds and hydrogen gas.
Reactivity measures how easy it is to make a compound change into a different compound.
They also attack buildings made of marble, limestone, cement, and many other materials.
Some people are worried about acid rain.
Acid rain is when chemicals get into the air, and are spread by raindrops.
Acid rain can hurt buildings and nature, especially water in lakes and rivers, and trees.
Some common acids :
acetic acid -LRB- vinegar -RRB-
citric acid -LRB- found in fruit -RRB-
sulfuric acid -LRB- used in batteries -RRB-
Acids can have a lot of different properties depending on their molecular structure, but most acids :
taste sour when you eat them
can sting the skin when you touch them
can corrode -LRB- or eat away at -RRB- metals
can be used as a reactant during electrolysis.
Acids can burn the skin.
The burn can be serious or minor -- it depends on the kind of acid and how concentrated the acid is.
Burns like this can cause serious damage quickly.
acetic acid -LRB- in vinegar -RRB-
citric acid -LRB- in fruit -RRB-
sulfuric acid -LRB- in batteries -RRB-
An acid is something that has a pH less than 7.0 when you dissolve it in water.
Sometimes the abbreviation HA is used to mean an acid.
The chemistry definition an acid is : `` a substance that donates a hydrogen ion -LRB- H + -RRB- to another substance, which is called a base. ''
The color of a white dwarf like most other stars, but not as bright.
White Dwarfs were discovered in the 19th century, and the first ones discovered were white.
The color of a star is a measure of how hot it is, white stars are like the Sun, blue stars are hotter, and red stars are cooler.
White dwarfs are not very bright because they are small - not because they are cold.
Some white dwarfs are blue, instead of white
Many white dwarfs are about the same size as the Earth, and about 100 times smaller than the Sun.
They may weigh the same as the sun, which would make them very dense.
The heavier the white dwarf is, then the smaller its size will be.
A star like our Sun will become a white dwarf when it has run out of fuel.
Near the end of its life, it will go through a red giant stage, and then lose most of its gas, until what is left settles down and becomes a young white dwarf.
White dwarf stars are extremely hot ; so they emit bright white light.
This heat is what is left of the heat made when the star collapsed.
Because white dwarfs are extremely small, it takes them a long time to cool down.
Eventually, all white dwarfs will cool down into what is called a black dwarf.
These are what is left of the star after all of its heat and light has gone away.
HEADING History
In 1862, Alvan Graham Clark in discovered a dark star near the star Sirius.
The companion, called Sirius B, had a surface temperature of about 25,000 kelvins, so it was thought of as a hot star.
However, Sirius B was about 10,000 times fainter than the primary, Sirius A. Scientists have discovered that the mass of Sirius B is almost the same as that of the Sun.
This means that once, Sirius B may have been a star very similar to our own sun.
In 1917, Adriaan Van Maanen discovered a white dwarf which is called Van Maanen 's Star.
It was the second white dwarf to be discovered.
It is the closest white dwarf to Earth, except for Sirius B.
White Dwarfs were discovered in the 19th century, and the first ones found were white.
People with a mental illness often behave in strange ways, or have strange thoughts, in the view of others.
Certain mental illnesses seem to be there from birth, they are the result of a birth disorder ; others develop during the life of a person.
People with a mental illness often have problems dealing with other people, or leading what is called a normal life.
Treatment and certain drugs can help people with certain mental illnesses lead a better life.
What is considered as a mental illness has changed over time.
What is considered to be a mental illness may not be one in a different culture.
These are symptoms of depression when they last for a long time -LRB- usually for more two weeks -RRB-.
Lithium is a mood stabilizer often used for bipolar disorder, but also can help people with depression.
Christoph Luxenberg, who works about semitics, claims that some verses of the Qur ` an were used in the 6th and 7th centuries ; the verses are based on Christian Breviaries.
Teenagers are easily affected by self-esteem problems.
Birds are sometimes considered dinosaurs that still live today.
Hitler is an important leader in world history.
The military-industrial complex he made helped Germany get out of the economic problems after World War I. At one time, Hitler 's government controlled much of Europe.
Adolf was an intelligent boy, but he did not pass the high school admission tests in Linz, twice.
There, he became interested in the anti-Semitic -LRB- anti-Jewish -RRB-, Pan-German teachings of Professor Leopold Poetsch.
In 1913, Hitler was 24.
Hitler did not like the Austrian army, so he left Austria for Germany.
He lived in a German city, Munich.
In 1923, Hitler tried to overthrow the Weimar Republicgovernment -LRB- 1918-36 -RRB- in the Beer Hall Putsch, but could not do it.
The government put Hitler in the Landsburg Prison.
They said that he would stay in prison for 5 years, but they let him leave after 9 months.
At first, Hitler wanted to call the book Four and a Half Years of Struggle against Lies, Stupidity and Cowardice.
In 1932, Hitler made the plans for a car : later it was the popular Volkswagen Beetle.
In 1933 Hitler got into power in Germany because of political manoeuvering.
His government immediately began restricting freedom of speech and the press.
It banned -LRB- did not allow -RRB- all other parties except the Nazi party, and made people political prisoners.
The military-industrial complex he made helped Germany get out of the economic problems after World War I, but to improve the economy, the Nazi government was forced to invade other countries and steal their money.
At one time, Hitler 's government conquered much of Europe.
In 1933 Hitler got into power in Germany because of political maneuvering -LRB- tricks -RRB-.
Then Hitler and his propaganda minister, Joseph Goebbels, began to spread extreme nationalism within Germany.
All media had to praise the Nazis.
Also, more people were born because Hitler wanted more people of the `` master race '' -LRB- by that he meant Aryan, or those with blue eyes and blonde hair -RRB-.
He made Germany a totalitarian Nazi state.
Aryanism was a myth, but Hitler and his friends believed it.
They thought that people like the Jews and Slavs were inferior -LRB- less valuable -RRB-, and it was okay to kill them.
Adolf Hitler -LRB- April 20, 1889 - April 30, 1945 -RRB- was the leader of the Soclialist Nazi party NSDAP in Germany from about 1921, and the leader -LRB- Führer -RRB- and Chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945.
This was in accordance with Socialist principles.
That made him a dictator, like all other Socialists from history.
Adolf Hitler -LRB- April 20, 1889 in Braunau am Inn -LRB- Austria -RRB- - April 30, 1945 in Berlin -RRB- was the leader of Germany during World War II.
He was a Nazi, which means that he thought that the government should be very powerful and should control how everyone lives.
Nazis also thought that the German people were better than other groups of people.
Adolf Hitler was born on April 20, 1889 at Braunau am Inn, a small town near Linz in the province of Upper Austria, not far from the German border, in what was then Austria-Hungary.
Hitler failed high school admission tests in Linz twice.
He fought for Germany in the First World War.
He was wounded in the war.
In 1923, Hitler tried to overthrow the Weimar Republic government -LRB- 1918-36 -RRB- in the Beer Hall Putsch.
The book said that Germany would take land from Poland and Russia.
It also had many anti-semitic comments, and called for the murder and expulsion of Jews from Germany.
In 1933 Hitler was elected into the German government.
He ended freedom of speech, and put his enemies in jail or killed them.
He did not allow any other party except the Nazi party.
Hitler and his propaganda minister, Joseph Goebbels, spread extreme nationalism within Germany.
Hitler started World War II by ordering the German Army to invade Poland.
His army conquered most of Europe including Poland, France, and a large part of the Soviet Union.
During the war he ordered the Germans to kill many people, including women and children.
He killed 6 million Jews, in an event called The Holocaust.
Other people that he killed were Roma -LRB- Gypsies -RRB-, homosexuals, Slavs -LRB- e.g. Russians -RRB-, and his political opponents.
Finally the other countries in the world teamed up and defeated Germany.
Hitler lost all of the land that he had taken, and millions of Germans were killed.
At the end of the war Hitler wanted everyone to die, including himself.
He committed suicide -LRB- killed himself -RRB- in Berlin in 1945.
Adolf Hitler -LRB- April 20, 1889 in Braunau am Inn, Austria - April 30, 1945 in Berlin -RRB- was a German politician who was the leader of the Nazi party.
He became Chancellor of Germany in 1933 and became dictator of Germany in 1934.
In 1933, they disallowed every other political party.
Hitler was been influenced by Martin Luther 's On the Jews and their Lies.
Alcohol often means ethanol, also called grain alcohol ; and sometimes any alcoholic -LRB- alcohol-containing -RRB- drink.
Alcohol often means ethanol, also called grain alcohol.
Sometimes it means any drink containing alcohol.
He also wrote music for many musical instruments, like the violin, cello, flute, organ, harpsichord and clavichord.
In sexual intercourse with a woman the penis is put into a woman 's vagina and then excited by moving it back and forth.
The penis is a male sex organ located on the outside of the body.
It is used for urination -LRB- getting rid of liquid waste from bladder -RRB- and sexual reproduction.
In sexual intercourse the penis is put into the vagina -LRB- to reproduce -RRB- or anus.
Men can also masturbate, which means that they excite their own penises and other sensitive areas of their body, such as the scrotum, by rubbing the genital area.
When a man is having sex with a woman and he ejaculates in her vagina.
The sperm in his semen can make her pregnant.
The main sexual function of the penis is to be inserted into the vagina and deliver semen to cause pregnancy.
The foreskin is a fold of skin that covers the end of the penis when not erect and up to half of the penis when it is erect.
Its main design is to protect the head of the penis by keeping it moist and sensitive.
The foreskin also provides `` lubrication '' during intercourse and masturbation, and prevents waste from entering the urethra which is important in infancy.
When performed in infancy the head of the penis and the foreskin are connected in a similar manner the fingernail is attached to the finger, and the foreskin must be scraped off the head of the penis.
This is expected in Islam and Judaism.
It is not required according to Christianity, but it is allowed and is quite common among some Christians.
In the Jewish religion baby boys are required to have their foreskin removed.
There is a small movement within the Jewish community to replace Bris Milahs -LRB- ritual circumcision -RRB- with `` Bris Shaloms '' or other non-invasive welcoming ceremonies.
Most parts are uninhabited, but some people manadge to survive in places where there is water.
Paris was conquered by Julius Caesar in 52 BC.
It used to be called Lutetia Parisiorum, but was named Paris in 212, after a local tribe.
Julius Caesar conquered Paris in 52 BC.
The Romans called people that lived there Parisii, and the place Lutetia or Lutetia Parisiorum.
The place got a shorter name, Paris, fifty years after that.
The Metro was built in 1900, and its total length is more than 200 km.
Slavs -LRB- 3.5 -- 6 million killed -RRB-,
The Holocaust refers to the planned deportation and killing of people by Nazi Germany.
2 million other civilians were killed with machine guns, by torture, or were hit and beaten until they died.
the holocaust was bad
2 million other civilians were killed with machine guns, torture, or were beaten until they died.
Many Soviet prisoners of war and civilians were killed.
The Holocaust, sometimes called The Shoah -LRB- Hebrew -RRB-, talks about when Nazi Germany killed people in a planned and forced way.
Six million Jews were killed, and a big number of other millions that the Nazis said were bad -LRB- eg, Gypsies, Homosexuals, Communists -RRB-.
Many were rounded up, put in ghettos, forced to work in concentration camps and then killed in big gas chambers.
The numbers below are not known entirely because many of those killed were never written down.
The numbers given below are those most thinkers agree on.
Still others were trampled by other Jews in merciless marches from one camp to another.
Anarchy -LRB- New Latin anarchia -RRB- is a term that has a number of different but related usages.
Specific meanings include
Absence of any form of political authority and\/or social hierarchy
Political disorder and confusion
Absence of any cohesive principle, such as a common standard or purpose.
In the first meaning of `` absence of political authority '', an anarchy can refer to a theoretical or actual society based on the principles of the political theory anarchism -LRB- see also anarcho-communism -RRB-.
In the second and third meanings, the term applies to states of political chaos.
According to the 2003 CIA World factbook, there is one nation in the world today, namely Somalia, in a state of anarchy, in that civil government has fallen and rule in parts of the country is by mob and warlords, who often clash with bloody results.
There are a few others -LRB- Afghanistan, Albania, Burundi, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Rwanda -RRB- in which government is described as `` emerging '' or `` transitional '', and which were in anomie in the near past.
The Solomon Islands is described as tending towards anomie because `` violence, corruption and crime have undermined stability and civil society ''.
Another example would be The Anarchy, the name most often given to the period of civil war and unsettled government which occurred in England during the reign of King Stephen of England.
When used in the second sense, that of political disorder and confusion, anarchy generally references a situation in which several governments or political authorities are competing for control of a given set of resources, geopolitical boundaries, and\/or peoples.
This seems to be the most common modern usage of the word, despite the fact that such a situation, involving as it does multiple competing authorities, might more accurately be called a polyarchy.
This causes consternation from time to time for those who espouse anarchy as a viable form of social organization ; it is a constant barrier to clear communication between such people and those who are not familiar with anarchist history or philosophy.
HEADING Etymology
The word anarchy comes from the Greek word & alpha ; & nu ; & alpha ; & rho ; & chi ; &#943; & alpha ; -LRB- anarchia -RRB-, which means `` without a leader '' -LRB- an - meaning `` without '', - arch - meaning `` rule '' or `` ruler '', and - ia corresponding to the English suffix '' - y '' in `` monarchy '' -RRB-.
It originated from the word anarchos which means either `` without head or chief '' or `` without beginning '' -LRB- Liddell & Scott 's Greek-English Lexicon -RRB-.
Anarchos was a description often applied to God - to be `` uncaused '' was considered divine.
A King might be called the archegos -LRB- & alpha ; & rho ; & chi ; & eta ; & gamma ; &#972; & sigmaf ;, from arche + ago, `` to lead '' -RRB- or just the archon -LRB- &#940; & rho ; & chi ; & omega ; & nu ;, from arche + on, `` being '' -RRB- or the archos -LRB- & alpha ; & rho ; & chi ; &#972; & sigmaf ;, from arche + - os, masculine ending -RRB- which mean `` ruler. ''
Athenian democracy was not considered anarchia because, like modern England, Athens had Kings.
In fact there were nine archontes led by an archon -LRB- Liddell & Scott -RRB-.
These `` rulers '' served mainly religious and magisterial purposes, but their existence precluded the Athenians from calling their government anarchia.
Instead of calling themselves anarchos, the Athenians described their situation as eleutheros -LRB- `` free '' -RRB-.
Anarchy is a term that has a number of different meanings.
These include :
Lack of any political authority and\/or social hierarchy
Political disorder and confusion
Lack of any binding principle, such as a common standard or purpose.
In the first meaning of `` no political authority '', an anarchy can refer to an imaginary or real society based on the principles of anarchism -LRB- see also anarcho-communism -RRB-.
In the second and third meanings, the term applies to political chaos.
According to the 2003 CIA World factbook, there is one nation in the world, Somalia, in a state of anarchy, because the central government there has fallen, and some parts of the country are ruled by mobs and warlords who sometimes fight one another.
There are a few other places -LRB- Afghanistan, Albania, Burundi, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Rwanda -RRB- where government is described -LRB- by DC -RRB- as `` emerging '' or `` transitional '', and were in anomie in the near past.
The Solomon Islands is described by DC as tending towards anomie because `` violence, corruption and crime have undermined stability and civil society ''.
Of course, the city of Washington DC describes itself as `` the crime-free pinnacle of honesty '', therefore it is fully entitled to point out all these specks, because it has no pillar whatsoever in its own eye.
Another example would be The Anarchy, the name most often given to the period of civil war and unsettled government which occurred in England during the reign of King Stephen of England.
When used in the second sense, that of political disorder and confusion, anarchy generally references a situation in which several governments or political authorities are competing for control of a given set of resources, geopolitical boundaries, and\/or peoples.
This seems to be the most common modern usage of the word, despite the fact that such a situation, involving as it does multiple competing authorities, might more accurately be called a polyarchy.
This causes consternation from time to time for those who espouse anarchy as a viable form of social organization ; it is a constant barrier to clear communication between such people and those who are not familiar with anarchist history or philosophy.
HEADING Etymology
The word anarchy comes from the Greek word & alpha ; & nu ; & alpha ; & rho ; & chi ; &#943; & alpha ; -LRB- anarchia -RRB-, which means `` without a leader '' -LRB- an - meaning `` without '', - arch - meaning `` rule '' or `` ruler '', and - ia corresponding to the English suffix '' - y '' in `` monarchy '' -RRB-.
It originated from the word anarchos which means either `` without head or chief '' or `` without beginning '' -LRB- Liddell & Scott 's Greek-English Lexicon -RRB-.
Anarchos was a description often applied to God - to be `` uncaused '' was considered divine.
A King might be called the archegos -LRB- & alpha ; & rho ; & chi ; & eta ; & gamma ; &#972; & sigmaf ;, from arche + ago, `` to lead '' -RRB- or just the archon -LRB- &#940; & rho ; & chi ; & omega ; & nu ;, from arche + on, `` being '' -RRB- or the archos -LRB- & alpha ; & rho ; & chi ; &#972; & sigmaf ;, from arche + - os, masculine ending -RRB- which mean `` ruler. ''
Athenian democracy was not considered anarchia because, like modern England, Athens had Kings.
In fact there were nine archontes led by an archon -LRB- Liddell & Scott -RRB-.
These `` rulers '' served mainly religious and magisterial purposes, but their existence precluded the Athenians from calling their government anarchia.
Instead of calling themselves anarchos, the Athenians described their situation as eleutheros -LRB- `` free '' -RRB-.
Anarchy is a word that has many meanings.
Anarchy is a word that has more than one use.
Some of its uses are :
When there is no leader, or when nobody has power over everyone.
When there is no political order, and there is confusion.
When persons do not have any reason to work together, or do not have anything that makes them feel like a group.
In the first use, an anarchy might be an made-up or real society based on a group 's beliefs about anarchism -LRB- see anarcho-communism -RRB-.
In the second use, `` anarchy '' has to do with having no political order.
The CIA World factbook says that there is only one nation, Somalia, that is in a state of anarchy.
In Somalia, the government is no longer in control, and some parts of the country are ruled by mobs and warlords who sometimes fight one another.
There are a small number of other places -LRB- Afghanistan, Albania, Burundi, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Rwanda -RRB- where government is `` emerging '' or `` transitional '', and were in anomie in the near past.
The DC says that the Solomon Islands is tending towards anomie because `` violence, corruption and crime have undermined stability and civil society ''.
-LRB- Another use of the word `` Anarchy '' is when it is said as `` The Anarchy ''.
This is the name that is sometimes given to the civil war and unsettled government in England when Stephen of England was King. -RRB-
When there is no political order, more than one government or political authority might sometimes compete for the same food, oil, land, or groups of people.
The word `` Anarchy '' to used to describe this.
However, because there is more than one competing authority, a better word might be polyarchy.
The difference between `` anarchy '' and `` polyarchy '' is important to someone who thinks that true anarchy would work well.
The word for someone who thinks this is `` anarchist '', and the word for this kind of thinking is `` anarchism ''.
Anarchism has been thought about for hundreds of years.
HEADING Where the word comes from
DNA -LRB- deoxyribonuleic acid -RRB- is a nucleic acid -LRB- an acid found in the center of cells -RRB-.
It can be found in the cells of all organisms.
This includes animals, plants, and all other living things.
DNA contains the plan for making the organism that contains it.
This plan is based on the plan from that organism 's parents.
DNA is shaped like a double helix, which is like a ladder twisted into a spiral.
Each `` leg '' of the `` ladder '' is a line of nucleotides.
A nucleotide is a molecule made of a kind of sugar, a phosphate -LRB- which is made of phosphorus and oxygen -RRB-, and a base.
Each nucleotide has one of four kinds of base : adenine -LRB- A -RRB-, tymine -LRB- T -RRB-, cytosine -LRB- C -RRB-, and guanine -LRB- G -RRB-.
The legs are connected by the bases ; A bases connect only with T bases, and C bases connect only with G bases.
The plan for a person, animal, or plant can be found by reading the order of the bases in the DNA.
DNA was first found by F. Miescher in 1869, but he did not know how it was shaped or what it was for.
In 1953, James Watson and Francis Crick figured out the shape of DNA.
DNA is an acronym for deoxyribonuleic acid, a nucleic acid.
Nucleic acid is a substance in the nucleus of a cell.
The nucleus is part of the cell separated from the rest of the cell by a membrane.
DNA can be found in the cells of all organisms.
Your parents sperm and egg each give you half of your DNA.
Each nucleotide has one of four kinds of base :
adenine -LRB- A -RRB-
thymine -LRB- T -RRB-
cytosine -LRB- C -RRB-
guanine -LRB- G -RRB-
The legs are each made of two bases.
The bases connect in the middle.
A bases connect only with T bases, and C bases connect only with G bases.
DNA was first found by F. Miescher in 1869.
Miescher did not know what it was.
He did not know what it looked like.
DNA is short for deoxyribonucleic acid, a nucleic acid.
Nucleic acid is a substance in the middle of a cell.
The nucleus is part of the cell separated from the rest of the cell by a wall.
DNA can be found in the cells of all living things, also known as organism.
This includes animals, plants, and all other living things, like germs.
DNA also helps in making protein.
In the 1950 's, Erwin Chargaff found that the amount of Thymine -LRB- T -RRB- present in a molecule of DNA was roughly equal to the amount of Adenine -LRB- A -RRB- present.
A few years after Chargaff 's discovery, a British scientist named Rosalind Franklin found that by defracting X-Rays onto a thin strand of DNA, an `` X '' pattern was developed.
This marked an important step in the discovery of the form of DNA.
HEADING see also
Chromosome
DNA, short for deoxyribonucleic acid, is a nucleic acid - an acidic chemical that is in the nucleus of cells.
This includes animals, plants, and all other living things, like germs and viruses.
DNA contains the genetic code of the organism - the instuctions that tell the cell and the whole living thing what proteins to produce.
The proteins that a cell makes control what that cell does - the cell 's function.
DNA, short for deoxyribonucleic acid, is a nucleic acid - an acidic molecule that is in the nucleus of cells.
Large amounts of DNA can be found in the cells of all living things, also known as organisms.
When DNA is copied this is called DNA replication.
To do this, the hydrogen bonds holding the two strands of the DNA together are broken and the molecule is split in half.
This gives two single strands.
New strands are formed by matching the bases -LRB- A with T and G with C -RRB- to make the missing strand.
The after the DNA molecule is in two separate pieces, another molecule called DNA polymerase synthesizes, or makes, the corresponding side of the DNA molecule.
Because DNA 's bases can only pair in one way, the new DNA is an accurate, opposite copy.
Each copy of a DNA molecule is made of half of the original molecule and half of new bases.
Proteins are created in ribosomes.
Ribosomes are found in the main body of the cell, but DNA is only found in the nucleus of the cell.
Ribosomes respond to a special codes called codons - groups of three base pairs which ` tell ' the ribosome which amino acid to add to the protein next.
The codon is part of the DNA, but DNA never leaves the nucleus.
Because DNA ca n't leave the nucleus, the DNA copies itself again, but in a new single strand form which is smalller and can get through the pores in the nucleus.
There are three types of RNA : messenger RNA -LRB- mRNA -RRB-, which is made in the nucleus, transfer RNA -LRB- tRNA -RRB-, which moves the correct amino acid to the ribosome and ribosomal RNA -LRB- rRNA -RRB-.
The messenger RNA is made in a process called transcription.
http://www.ornl.gov/sci/techresources/Human_Genome/project/info.shtml
Briefly, the hydrogen bonds holding the two strands of the molecule together are broken and the molecule is split in half.
New strands are formed by matching the bases -LRB- A with T and G with C -RRB- to make the missing strands.
First, an enzyme called DNA helicase splits the DNA down the middle by breaking the hydrogen bonds.
Then after the DNA molecule is in two separate pieces, another molecule called DNA polymerase synthesizes, or makes, the corresponding side of the DNA molecule.
DNA is what tells the cell how to make particular proteins.
Proteins do most of the ` work ' in cells and in organisms.
Proteins are made out of smaller molecules called amino acids.
To make a particular protein to do a particular job, the correct amino acids have to be joined up in the correct order.
Proteins are made in cell structure or organelles called ribosomes.
Because DNA ca n't leave the nucleus, the cell makes a copy of the DNA, but in a new single strand form which is smalller and can get through the pores in the nucleus and out into the cell.
This is messenger mRNA.
The mRNA attaches to a ribosome where the protein is made.
The ribosome works on three bases at a time - this is called a codon and ` codes ' for a particular amino acid.
Another sort of RNA called transfer RNA tRNA ` matches ' the RNA codon -LRB- but with the opposite bases -RRB- and is linked to the right amino acid.
HEADING Mutations
When DNA is copied mistakes are sometimes made - these are called mutations.
There are three main types of mutations :
Deletions where one base is missed out
Insertion where an extra base is put in
Transcription Errors where the wrong base is put in.
Usually mutations are fatal for the cell or the organism - the protein made by the ` new ' DNA does not work as it should, but also evolution is moved forward by mutations, when the new protein either works better or has another good effect.
Proteins are made in cell structures or organelles called ribosomes.
There are three types of RNA : messenger RNA -LRB- mRNA -RRB-, which is made in the nucleus, transfer RNA -LRB- tRNA -RRB-, which moves the correct amino acid to the ribosome which links it on to the growing amino acid chain.
DNA was first isolated - extracted from cells - by Swiss physician Friedrich Miescher in 1869, when he was working on bacteria from the pusin surgical bandages.
The molecule was found in the nucleus of the cells and so he called it `` nuclein ''.
In 1919 this discovery was followed by the discovery by Phoebus Levene of the base, sugar and phosphate nucleotide unit.
A few years after Chargaff 's discovery, a British scientist named Rosalind Franklin worked on crystals of DNA and how they diffracted beams of X-rays and found that an `` X '' pattern was produced which showed that the crystal was probably helix shaped.
James Crick and Francis Watson were also working on the structure of DNA and working from Franklin 's results and using them and models of the bases worked out the shape of the molecule.
How Crick and Watson got Franklin 's results has been much debated.
HEADING External Links
DNA is shaped like a double helix, which is like a ladder twisted into a spiraling shape.
Point Mutations where the wrong base is put in.
The nucleus is a part of the cell separated from the rest of the cell by a membrane or wall.
A lot of DNA can be found in the cells of all living things, also known as organisms.
This includes animals, plants, germs and viruses.
DNA contains the genetic code of the living thing - the instuctions that tell all the cells in the organism proteins to make.
The DNA in a living thing is a mix of the DNA from each of its parents.
DNA is shaped like a double helix, which is like a ladder twisted into a spiral shape.
` A ' connects only with ` T ', and ` C ' connects only with ` G '.
The reason that the bases can only pair up ` G ' with ` C ' and ` A ' with ` T ' is the number of hydrogen bonds each base can make.
Adenine and thymine can each make two hydrogen bonds and cytosine and guanine can make three hydrogen bonds.
Then after the DNA molecule is in two separate pieces, another molecule called DNA polymerase makes a new strand that matches each of the strands of the split DNA molecule.
Each copy of a DNA molecule is made of half of the original -LRB- starting -RRB- molecule and half of new bases.
Usually mutations are fatal for the cell or the organism - the protein made by the ` new ' DNA does not work as it should, but also evolution is moved forward by mutations, when the new protein works better or has another good effect.
DNA, short for deoxyribonucleic acid, is the molecule that contains the genetic code of all living things, also known as organisms.
DNA is found in every cell in the organism and contains instructions that tell all the cells in the organism what proteins to make.
DNA is inherited from parents to their children, which is why children share traits with their parents.
A piece of DNA that contains instructions to make a protein is called a gene.
DNA is inherited from parents to their children.
This is why children share traits with their parents.
The DNA in an organism is a mix of the DNA from each of its parents.
DNA is found in every cell in the organism and tells all the cells what proteins to make.
Marx thought rich people did not pay their workers enough.
His most famous book was the Communist Manifesto.
He wrote it with Friedrich Engels in 1848.
The book sets out the ideas and aims of communism.
His ideas are called Marxism.
His most important work is Das Kapital.
He spent many years working on the three volumes of the book.
Das Kapital talks about and disagrees with `` capitalism ''.
Karl Marx was born in Germany in 1818, but had to move many times because people did not like his ideas.
Marx lived for a long time in London.
He died there in 1883.
After Marx died, his friend Engels finished many of his works.
He Believed that you were n't cool unless you had hair like a lions mane.
Everything is now flying away, similar to the parts of a bomb.
The theory is called the `` Big Bang '' because `` bang '' is the sound that a bomb makes.
The most important is the redshift of very far away stars.
When a star moves away from us, its light becomes more red and less blue, because of the Doppler effect.
From this we can see that the stars are moving away from us.
If we look at how fast they are moving, we see that they all started at one place about 13.7 billion years ago.
Because most things become colder when they become bigger, the universe was also very hot when it started.
Other observations that support the Big Bang theory are the amounts of chemical elements, for example, hydrogen, helium, and lithium, and also the `` cosmic microwave radiation ''.
The background radiation is radio waves that are everywhere in the universe.
It is now very weak and cold, but a long time ago it was very strong and very hot.
Cosmology is the name given to how the universe began and how it has developed.
Scientists that study cosmology agree the Big Bang theory matches what they have seen so far.
Other theories do not match as well.
Foolish means silly or not wise, they could also sometimes be described as Stupid.
Aristotle -LRB- Greek Aristotel s -RRB- -LRB- born 384 BC at Stagira, in Macedonia, Greece ; died March 46, 323 BC at Chalicis, Euboea, Greece -RRB- was a Greek philosopher.
Aristotle taught Alexander the Great, -LRB- DICK -RRB- who later conquered the entire Middle East.
Sagan went to the University of Chicago, where he got two degrees in physics.
Then he became a doctor of astronomy in 1960.
Sagan became a teacher and director at Cornell in 1971.
He helped many unmanned spacecraft to explore outer space.
He thought of the idea of putting a message on spacecraft which could be understood by any life from another planet that might find it.
The first message sent into space was a large gold-plated label on the space probe Pioneer 10.
He continued to make the messages better.
HEADING Education and work
HEADING Making science popular
Sagan was very good at helping people to understand the cosmos.
He gave the 1977\/1978 Christmas Lectures for Young People at the Royal Institution.
He wrote -LRB- with Ann Druyan, who became his third wife -RRB- and made the very popular thirteen-part PBS television series ' ; he also wrote books to help science become more popular -LRB- The Dragons of Eden, which won a Pulitzer Prize, Broca 's Brain, etc. -RRB- and a novel, Contact, that was a best-seller and was made into a film starring Jodie Foster in 1997.
After Cosmos, Sagan was linked with the catchphrase `` billions and billions '', which he never used in the television series -LRB- but he often used the word `` billions '' -RRB-.
He wrote Pale Blue Dot : A Vision of the Human Future in Space, which was chosen as a notable book of 1995 by The New York Times.
Not all scientists agreed with him.
Although they all liked the way he made science popular, some were afraid that people would think that his personal opinions might be confused with real science.
What he said about the Kuwait oil well fires during the first Gulf War were shown later to be wrong.
Later in his life, Sagan 's books showed his skeptical, naturalistic view of the world.
In his book The Demon-Haunted World, Sagan gave a list of mistakes he had made as an example of how science is self-correcting.
Some people thought Sagan had a big ego.
In 1994, Apple Computer chose a code name `` Sagan '' when they developed the Power Macintosh 7100.
When Sagan heard this, he tried to make Apple Computer use another name.
Sagan lost the fight in court, but Apple engineers did what he asked anyway, and named the project `` Butthead Astronomer ''.
Sagan tried to sue Apple again, saying they made him look stupid.
Sagan lost in court again, but the name of the project was changed to `` LAW '' -LRB- Lawyers Are Wimps -RRB-.
Sagan is said to be an atheist or agnostic, but some people have said he is a pantheist, because he said thing like `` The idea that God is an oversized white male with a flowing beard who sits in the sky and tallies the fall of every sparrow is ludicrous.
Sagan married three times ; the biologist Lynn Margulis -LRB- mother of Dorion Sagan -RRB- in 1957, artist Linda Salzman in 1968, and author Ann Druyan in 1981, to whom he was married until his death.
Sagan was very important, because he made science popular, and changed the way science was organized, and because he defended humanism, and argued against seeing things from only one point of view.
The 1997 movie Contact -LRB- see above -RRB-, based on Sagan 's novel of the same name, and finished after his death, ends with the dedication `` For Carl. ''
This is how the Europeans learned that North America and South America were there.
Sometimes, Science Fiction stories talk about humans colonizing space on space stations or planets other than Earth.
Dry cells are commonly used today.
The Vietnam War, also known as the American War and the Second Indochina War, was a war from 1961 to 1975 in Vietnam.
It was fought between the Democratic Republic of Vietnam -LRB- North Vietnam -RRB- and the Republic of Vietnam -LRB- South Vietnam -RRB-, which was very much supported by the United States.
South Korea, Thailand, Australia, New Zealand, and the Philippines cooperated with South Vietnam and the United States.
The USSR and China supported the communists in North Vietnam.
Before the war, France had controlled the Vietnam region.
The Vietnam War was a product of the conflict between France and Vietnam.
The first part of the Vietnam War started in 1946 when the French tried to re-take control of the small country.
The USA sent 2.5 billion dollars in army supplies to help the French.
In the summer of 1954, the French and the Vietnamese signed the Geneva Peace Accord.
After the peace treaty was signed, the country was split into two separate countries : North Vietnam and South Vietnam.
North Vietnam wanted to get rid of South Vietnam 's government and make the whole country communist.
The United States sent soldiers to South Vietnam to help them defend against North Vietnam.
In 1973, the United States started to send its soldiers home.
The war ended with the Liberation of Sàigòn on May 1, 1975, when the last American soldiers left.
North and South Vietnam became a single country again on July 2, 1976, and is now called the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
The Vietnam War, also known as the Second Indochina War, was a war from 1959 to 1975 in Vietnam.
HEADING Background and causes
Before and after World War II, France had controlled the Vietnam region.
The Vietnam War was a product of the conflict between France and the Vietnamenese and their leader Ho Chi Minh.
The first part of the Vietnam War -LRB- the First Indochina War -RRB- started in 1946 when the French tried to re-take control of the small country.
They were fought by followers of Ho Chi Minh.
The United States backed the anti-communist government in South Vietnam.
It began to send military advisors to help train and support the South Vietnam Army.
The South was fighting a slowly rising insurgency from the North, the National Front for the Liberation of South Vietnam -LRB- NLF -RRB-, which would become to be known as the Viet Cong.
HEADING Escalation
In 1964, United States naval ships reported being attacked by North Vietnam.
Reports later suggested that the attack did not happen.
However, the United States passed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution and began to bomb North Vietnam.
In 1965, the first United States combat troops entered Vietnam.
More and more U.S. troops came to Vietnam.
In 1968, the Tet Offensive began to change the view of the war in many people in the United States.
Bombing and offensive operations continued off and on as peace negotiations began in 1971-1972.
HEADING End of U.S involvement and end of the war
In 1973, the United States started to send its soldiers home after and combat operations stopped.
South Vietnam contintued to fight the NLF and North Vietnam by itself.
The war ended with the Fall of Saigon on May 1, 1975.
HEADING Aftermath
The Vietnam caused a lot of controversy in the United States.
A large scale peace movement demonstrated against the war and conscription.
Some student protestors were even killed for protesting.
Many people felt like they were lied to by the United States government about Vietnam due to cover ups about bombing in Cambodia and the killing of Vietnamese civilians like that of the My Lai Massacre.
The United States used chemical agents such as Agent Orange to destroy crops and jungle areas.
The effects of these chemical agents are still felt today in Vietnam.
Somewhere between 2 and 5.7 million people died in the war.
Between 365,000 and 587,000 civilians died.
Around 58,000 American troops died.
South Vietnam continued to fight the NLF and North Vietnam by itself.
In 1968, the Tet Offensive began to make many Americans thin differently about the war.
Bombing and offensive operations continued on and off as peace negotiations began in 1971-1972.
When the French attempted to take back control after the Japanese surrendered, they were opposed by a Vietnamese army called the Vietminh.
The U.S. responded by sending more assistance to South Vietnam and also sent soldiers as military advisors.
The United Nations is an international organization.
A lot of nations send people there hold meetings and pass resolutions -LRB- make decisions -RRB- about global issues.
The main building for the United Nations is located in New York City in the United States of America.
Most nations are members of the UN and send people to the headquarters to hold meetings and pass s -LRB- make decisions -RRB- about global issues.
The United Nations ' goal is to keep world peace, improve the world 's living conditions in general, and to make the world a better place to live in.
The virus that causes chickenpox also causes shingles.
The shingles virus is contagious from person to person, though only by direct contact.
Pepsin is a kind of enzyme.
It acts on proteins in the stomach.
Pepsin is used to make cheese.
The brand name Pepsi comes from pepsin.
H + indicates the concentration of H + ions -LRB- also written H3O +, the equal concentration of hydronium ions -RRB-, measured in moles per litre -LRB- also known as molarity -RRB-.
January 18 - Germany becomes a country when states of the North German Confederation unite.
The King of Prussia becomes the first German Emperor as Wilhelm I.
January 10 - France surrenders -LRB- gives up -RRB- to end the Franco-Prussian War
March 22 - In North Carolina, William Holden is the first American governor -LRB- leader of a U.S. state -RRB- to be impeached -LRB- removed from office -RRB-
March 26 - The Paris Commune takes power in Paris.
April - Stockholms Handelsbank is formed.
May 27 - Georges Rouault, painter and artist -LRB- d. 1958 -RRB-.
His deafness became worse.
In 1817, he was completely deaf.
He had heard that Marco Polo had found a sea to the east of China and he believed that it must be the same as sea to the west of Europe.
The General Publi License or GPL is a kind of copyleft license for free software.
He wanted to stop software hoarding.
Stallman had had a problem with software hoarding before.
He had given the company `` Symbolics '' some software with a public domain copyright.
That is allowed by law because public domain software has no restrictions on making the software proprietary software, because public domain is no copyright at all.
So someone can take public domain software and redistribute a derivative work from it, and license it with a very proprietary license.
Most meat comes from animals.
Most raw meat can give you an upset tummy.
Most raw meat can make humans sick.
Michelangelo lived an extremely busy life, creating a great number of artworks.
Some of Michelangelo 's works are among the most famous that have ever been made.
They include two very famous marble statues, the Pieta in Saint Peter 's Basilica and David which once stood in a piazza in Florence but is now in the Accademia Gallery.
His most famous paintings are huge frescos, the Sistine Chapel Ceiling and the Last Judgement.
His most famous work of architecture is the east end and dome of Saint Peter 's Basilica.
A lot is known about Michelangelo 's life because he left many letters, poems and journals.
Because he was so famous, he became the very first artist to have his biography -LRB- story of his life -RRB- published while he was still living.
His biographer, Giorgio Vasari, said that he was the greatest artist of the Renaissance.
He was sometimes called Il Divino -LRB- `` the divine one '' -RRB-.
Other artists said that he had terribilità, -LRB- his works were so grand and full of strong emotion that they were scary -RRB-.
Many other artists who saw his work tried to have the same emotional quality.
From this idea of terribilità came a style of art called Mannerism.
J. de Tolnay, The Youth of Michelangelo, 11 His father was Lodovico di Leonardo di Buonarroti di Simoni, and his mother was Francesca di Neri del Miniato di Siena.
C. Clément, Michelangelo, 5 The Buonarrottis were a banking family from Florence.
They claimed they were descended from the noble Countess Matilda of Canossa.
Michelangelo father had lost most of the bank 's money, so he worked for the local government in the town of Chiusi.
When Michelangelo was a baby, the family moved back to Florence.
As a young child, he became very sick.
His mother died when he was seven.
His father owned a marble quarry near the small town of Settignano.
He sent Michelangelo there, to live on a small farm with a stonecutter and his wife and family.
Many years later Michelangelo the two things that had helped him to be a good artist were being born in the gentle countryside of Arezzo and being nursed in a house where, along with his milk, he was given the training to use a chisel and hammer.
Michelangelo 's father then brought him back to Florence and sent him to study with a tutor, Francesco da Urbino.
A. Condivi, The Life of Michelangelo, 9 Michelangelo was not interested in his school lessons.
He explored the great churches of the city, and drew copies of the frescos that he saw there.
When he was thirteen, He was apprenticed to the painter Domenico Ghirlandaio.
R. Liebert, Michelangelo : A Psychoanalytic Study of his Life and Images, 59 Ghirlandaio had a large busy studio.
He had wealthy patrons who worked for the Medici.
He painted frescos in their family chapels.
Michelangelo was able to learn the art of fresco painting very well, from Ghirlandaio.
In a large workshop such as Ghirlandaio 's, artists would have been working in all sorts of different media, including sculpture, metalwork and painting altarpieces.
Michelangelo would have learned about all these things.
When Michelangelo was only fourteen, his father persuaded Ghirlandaio to pay his apprentice as an artist, which was highly unusual at the time.
C. Clément, Michelangelo, 7
The richest, most powerful family in Florence were the Medici.
They had an academy where some of the most famous philosophers, poets, and artists met to share their ideas.
The Medici family were important patrons of the arts.
In 1489, Lorenzo de ' Medici, the head of the family, asked Ghirlandaio to send his two best pupils to the academy.
C. Clément, Michelangelo, 9 Michelangelo attended the academy from 1490 to 1492.
He heard the teaching and discussion of Marsilio Ficino, Pico della Mirandola and Angelo Poliziano.
J. de Tolnay, The Youth of Michelangelo, 18 -- 19 The philosophy that they taught was called Humanism.
It was based on the philosophy of the ancient Greek Plato.
Michelangelo 's ideas and his art were influenced by these teachings.
Michelangelo and another young sculptor called Pietro Torrigiano studied sculpture under Bertoldo di Giovanni.
Michelangelo had an argument with Torrigiano, who punched him on the nose so that it was badly broken and spoilt his appearance for the rest of his life.
Michelangelo sculpted some reliefs -LRB- flat panels with raised figures on them -RRB-.
One was `' the Battle of the Centaurs '' which was made for Lorenzo de Medici.
Michelangelo 's father had lost most of the bank 's money, so he worked for the local government in the town of Chiusi.
HEADING Early adulthood = = =
In 1492, Michelangelo 's patron, Lorenzo de ' Medici died.
This brought about a big change in Michelangelo 's life.
J. de Tolnay, The Youth of Michelangelo, 20 -- 21 He went back to live at his father 's house.
Michelangelo asked the prior at the Church of Santo Spirito to allow him to study the anatomy of the bodies of people who had died at the church 's hospital.
In 1493, as a `` thank-you '' gift to the prior, Michelangelo carved a large wooden Crucifix which still hangs in the church.
A. Condivi, The Life of Michelangelo, 17 In January 1494, there were very heavy snowfalls.
Lorenzo de ' Medici 's son, Piero de Medici commissioned Michelangelo to make a snow statue.
So Michelangelo began to work for the Medici again.
In 1494, a new leader rose up in Florence.
He was a Dominican friar called Savonarola.
His strong preaching caused people to burn their books, throw away their jewellery and chase the wealthy families out of the city.
The Medici had to go.
For Michelangelo, it was a good time to travel.
He stayed for a while in Venice, then moved to Bologna.
In Bologna he soon got work sculpting three figures for the big marble Shrine of St. Dominic.
When things calmed down in Florence, Michelangelo returned and worked for another member of the Medici family, Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de ' Medici.
J. de Tolnay, The Youth of Michelangelo, 24 -- 25
Michelangelo made a marble statue of Cupid asleep.
Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco told Michelangelo that it looked just like a real Ancient Roman statue and said that if he made it dirty and knocked a few chips off, someone would pay a lot of money for it.
Lorenzo sold it to a Cardinal who discovered that it was a fraud.
A. Condivi, The Life of Michelangelo, 19 -- 20 He thought that Michelangelo 's work was so good that he told the pope about it.
The pope then invited Michelangelo to go to Rome and work for him.
Michelangelo arrived in Rome 25 June 1496 at the age of 21J.
de Tolnay, The Youth of Michelangelo, 26 -- 28.
He lived near the church of Santa Maria di Loreto on the Gianicolo hill.
In 1496 he got an important `` commission '' -LRB- he was given a paid job -RRB- from Cardinal Raffaele Riario.
The Cardinal wanted Michelangelo to make a marble statue, larger than life-size, of Bacchus, the Ancient Roman God of wine.
Michelangelo worked hard at the statue.
He carved Bacchus as a young man who was quite drunk, and looked as if he was staggering as he raised his cup to make a toast.
The cardinal did not like the drunken Bacchus and would not pay for it.
A banker called Jacopo Galli bought it for his garden.
Michelangelo 's next important commission was from the French Ambassador who asked him to make a statue of the Virgin Mary mourning over the dead body of her son Jesus.
This type of artwork, either a painting or a statue, is called by the Italian name `` Pieta '' -LRB- say : `` Pe-ay-ta '' -RRB-.
Michelangelo 's Pieta is the most famous Pieta that has ever been made.
It is now in Saint Peter 's Basilica and is visited by thousands of people every day.
Giorgio Vasari wrote : `` It is a miracle that a shapeless block of stone could have been carved away to make something so perfect that even nature could hardly have made it better, using real human flesh. ''
Leonardo was born on April 15, 1452, in the Tuscan hill town of Vinci, in the valley of the Arno River.
His grandfather, Ser Antonio, proudly wrote down the details.
Leonardo 's parents were not married.
His father was a lawyer, Messer Piero Fruosino di Antonio da Vinci.
His mother, Caterina, was a servant.
She may have been a slave from the Middle East.
Leonardo 's full name was `` Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci '', which means `` Leonardo, the son of Messer -LRB- Mister -RRB- Piero from Vinci ''.
Leonardo spent his first five years living in a farm house with his mother.
Then he lived at Vinci with his father, his father 's wife Albiera, his grandparents and uncle, Francesco.
When Leonardo grew up, he only wrote down two things about his childhood.
He remebered that when he was lying outside in his cradle a large bird flew from the sky and hovered over him.
Its tail feathers brushed his face.
Leonardo 's other important memory was how he found a cave while exploring in the mountains.
He was terrified that some great monster might be hiding there.
But he was also very excited and curious to find out what was inside.
Leonardo started painting while he was still a boy.
Vasari wrote about Leonardo 's life shortly after his deat.
He tells many interesting stories about how clever Leonardo was.
He says that Leonardo painted a round wooden plaque with a picture of snakes spitting fire.
Sir Piero took his son 's painting to Florence and sold it to an art dealer.
In 1466, when Leonardo was fourteen, his father took him to the artist Verrocchio, to be an apprentice.
Verrocchio had a big workshop that was one of the busiest in Florence.
While Leonardo was there he was able to learn all sorts of useful skills : drafting, chemistry, metallurgy, metal working, plaster casting, leather working, mechanics and carpentry as well as the artistic skills of drawing, painting, sculpting and model making.
's workshop was at the center of the intellectual currents of Florence, assuring the young Leonardo of an education in the humanities.
Leonardo would have been exposed to a vast range of technical skills and had the opportunity to
Messer Piero took his son 's painting to Florence and sold it to an art dealer.
Leonardo was learning to be an artist, so he had to learn drawing, painting, sculpting and model making.
While he was at the workshop, he was able to learn all sorts of other useful skills : drafting, chemistry, metallurgy, metal working, plaster casting, leather working, mechanics and carpentry.
Leonardo was not the only young painter at Verrocchio 's workshop.
Many other painters were trained there, or often visited.
Some of them later became famous : Ghirlandaio, Perugino, Botticelli, and Lorenzo di Credi.
These artists were all just a few years older than Leonardo.
Vasari tells an interesting story from this time of Leonardo 's life.
Verrocchio was painting a large picture of the Baptism of Christ.
He gave Leonardo the job of painting one of the angels holding Jesus ' robe on the left side of the picture.
Vasari said that Leonardo painted the angel so beautifully that Verrocchio put down his brush and never painted again.
When the painting is exaamined closely it is possible to see that many other parts of the picture, such as the rocks, the brown stream and the background may have been painted by Leonardo as well.
Verrocchio made a bronze statue of David at this time.
It is believed that he used Leonardo as his Model.
In about 1472, when he was twenty, Leonardo joined the Guild of St Luke, an organization of artists and doctors of medicine.
Even after his father set him up in his own workshop, Leonardo still enjoyed working at Verrocchio 's workshop.
Leonardo 's earliest known work is a drawing in pen and ink of the Arno valley.
It has the date August 5, 1473.
It is now in the Uffizi Gallery
HEADING Working life 1476 -- 1513
Very little is known about Leonardo 's life and work between 1472 and 1481.
He was probably busy in Florence.
In 1478 he had an important commissioned to paint an altarpiece in 1478 for the Monks of San Donato a Scopeto.
The painting was to be the Adoration of the Magi.
The painting was never finished because Leonardo was sent away to Milan.
HEADING Working life 1476 -- 1499
HEADING Gran Cavallo
Part of his work was to design festivals and processions.
HEADING The Virgin of the Rocks
HEADING The Last Supper
HEADING Working life 1499-1513
In 1499, Ludovico il Moro was overthrown.
Leonardo left Milan with his servant Salai and a friend, Luca Pacioli, who was a mathematician.
They went to Venice.
Leonardo worked as a military architect and engineer.
Because Venice is a city on many islands, Leonardo tried to think of ways to defend the city from a naval attack.
HEADING The Virgin and Child with St Anne and John the Baptist
Leonardo started work on a new painting.
He drew a large `` cartoon ''.
-LRB- This means : a drawing that is a plan for the painting. -RRB-
The cartoon showed the Virgin Mary siiting on the knee of her mother, St Anne.
Mary holds the baby Jesus in her arms.
Jesus stretches out his hands to his young cousin John the Baptist.
Vasari says that everyone was so amazed by the beautiful drawing that `` men and women, young and old '' flocked to see it `` as if they were attending a great festival ''.
The drawing is now in the National Gallery, London.
Even though it is old and faded and is kept in a dark room, people go to the gallery to sit in front of it every day.
Like many of Leonardo 's projects, the painting was never done.
HEADING The Battle of Anghiari
In 1502 and 1503, Leonardo worked for a powerful noble called Cesare Borgia, who was the son of Pope Alexander VI.
He traveled around Italy with Borgia, as a military architect and engineer.
Late in 1503 Leonardo returned to Florence.
He rejoined the Guild of St Luke.
He was given a very important commission.
The Signoria -LRB- Town councillors -RRB- of the City of Florence wanted to large frescos painted on the walls of the most important room of the Signoria Palace.
They chose the two most famous painters, Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo.
Michelangelo was to paint the Battle of Cascina.
Leonardo began the project by studying and drawing the faces of angry men and fighting horses.
These drawings can still be seen in his notebooks.
But unfortunenately, this was to be another failure for Leonardo.
When he painted the picture on the wall, instead of using fresco, he mixed the paints with oil.
The paint would not dry.
Leonardo lit some fires to dry it, and the painting melted.
We have some idea what the painting was like, because Peter Paul Rubens drew a copy of the middle part.
After a time, the town council covered it up and got somebody else to paint the wall.
Michelangelo did not finish his painting either, because the Pope called him to Rome.
In 1506 Leonardo went back to Milan with his pupils, and lived in his own house in Porta Orientale.
Some of the pupils became well-known painters : Bernardino Luini, Giovanni Antonio Boltraffio and Marco D' Oggione.
D'Oggione made several copies of the Last Supper.
Luini made a copy of the Virgin of the Rocks.
Boltraffio -LRB- and the others -RRB- painted many Madonna and Child pictures which can still be seen in art galleries and churches.
Leonardo did not paint very many pictures.
But he drew hundreds of quick sketches, plans, maps and detailed drawings.
This is the way that he recorded all the interesting thinggs that he saw, studied and thought about.
Some of Leonardo 's drawings are `` studies '' for paintings.
In these drawings Leonardo planned the things he was going to paint.
Some studies are plans for whole paintings.
One of these paintings is a large beautiful drawing of the Madonna and Child with St Anne and St John the Baptist that is now in the National Gallery, London.
Many of the studies show `` details '' that Leonardo wanted to get just right.
One study shows a very detailed perspective drawing of the ruined buildings in the background of the painting of the Magi.
Other studies show hands, faces, drapery, plants, horses and babies.
The earliest drawing by Leonardo that has a date on it, is a Landscape of the Arno Valley, 1473, which shows the river, the mountains, Montelupo Castle and the farmlands beyond it in great detail.
HEADING Leonardo as student, scientist and inventor
HEADING Notebooks = = =
Leonardo studied things all his life.
He did n't go to university to study.
He studied by looking at things in the world around him.
He looked at things to see how they were made and how they worked.
He drew the things that he saw and the discoveries that he made into his notebooks, and made notes about them.
Many of his notebooks are now in museums.
There are 13,000 pages of notes and drawings.
Many of these are scientific studies.
Some of the things that Leonardo studied are :
The geology of the earth, with its mountain -RRB- s, valleys, rivers and rocks
The anatomy of the human body with its skeleton, muscles, veins and internal organs
The anatomy of horses, cows, dogs, and bears
The expressions on human faces
The flight of birds
The weather
The way that water flows
The botany of plants
It is likely that Leonardo planned to publish the studies in his notebooks.
He organised many pages carefully, with one study taking up the front and back of each page.
There is a page with drawings and writing about the human heart and a page about the womb and the fetus.
One page shows drawings of the muscles of a shoulder and another drawing shows how an arm works.
The notebooks were not published in Leonardo 's lifetime.
After he died, they were divided between different people who had known him.
They are nearly all in museums or libraries such as Windsor Castle, the Louvre, and the British Library.
The Biblioteca Ambrosiana -LRB- library -RRB- in Milan has the twelve-volume Codex Atlanticus.
Pages from the Arundel Manuscript at the British Library can be seen at http://www.bl.uk/onlinegallery/ttp/ttpbooks.html.
In 1478, he had an important commission to paint an altarpiece for the Monks of San Donato a Scopeto.
In 1482, he made a silver lyre -LRB- a musical instrument -RRB- in the shape of a horse 's head.
Late in 1503, Leonardo returned to Florence.
In 1506, Leonardo went back to Milan with his pupils, and lived in his own house in Porta Orientale.
None of these things were ever made in Leonardo 's lifetime.
Vasari, Boltraffio, Castiglione, `` Anonimo '' Gaddiano, Berensen, Taine, Fuseli, Rio, Bortolon, etc as quoted in della Chiesa, see Bibliography The Art historian Helen Gardner said that no-one has ever been quite like him because he was interested in so many things that he seems to have had the mind of a giant, and yet what he was like as a person is still a mystery. ''
... His mind and personality seem to us superhuman, the man himself mysterious and remote ''.
-LRB- Helen Gardner -RRB-
I LIKE THE POPE,
THE POPE SMOKES DOPE !
The current pope was previously named Joseph Ratzinger.
In recent years the waining popularity of the Catholic church has led to aggressive marketing campaigns directed at third world markets such as the sale of `` Pope '' brand prayer based prophylactics.
The current Pope is Benedict XVI, was born in Germany.
The previous Pope, John Paul II died on April 2, 2005 was from Poland.
Everyone is told the new name when the Habemus Papam is read out.
The current pope was called Joseph Ratzinger.
Catholics believe that when making statements ex cathedra, that is official statements teaching about belief, the Pope is infallible - which means God will not allow his followers to be misled by allowing their leader to make a wrong statement.
Only one of any Pope 's statements has been ex cathedraApostolic constitution Munificentissimus Deus, written by Pope Pius XII, 1 November 1950.
The Pope is also the head of state of the Vatican City, a tiny country in the city of Rome in Italy whose only purpose is to run the Roman Catholic Church.
When Silicon Valley was being reclaimed in California, Douglas Engelbart, a researcher of Stanford institue, put on his thinking cap while looking at a computer.
In those days, using a computer was very inconvenient because of its large size.
Having studied for a long time, he succeeded in inventing an input device called ` XY index ' at last.
Originally it needed two hands to use, but it was developed gradually to be used by one hand.
This is the mouse that we commonly use todays.
And ` Windows ' was being used widely as a OS -LRB- operating system -RRB- of a computer, so the mouse spread rapidly.
Now it is fitted in 86% of all computers, and there are about 3 hundred million.
In these days, the wireless mouse is invented.
The first airplane was invented by the Wright Brothers in 1903.
However, statistics show airplanes are safer than cars.
A steam-powered unmanned airplane, that weighed 9 lbs.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/1591057.stm, was built by John Stringfellow in 1848.
citation needed However, statistics show that riding in a plane is safer than driving in a car.
However, statistics show that riding in a plane is safer than driving in a car.
HEADING Uses in War
Clothing are items which cover the body.
We normally drink it hot.
It comes from the coffee plant.
To make it, we roast beans from the plant ; we cook them.
Roasting gives coffee its flavor -LRB- taste -RRB-.
Then we grind the beans - we press them so they change into powder.
Then we put water through the coffee.
The water gets flavor from running through the coffee grounds.
HEADING Coffee sorts
There are two main sorts of coffee plant ; Arabica is the traditional coffee, and people think it tastes the best.
Robusta, which has more caffeine, is easy to grow in places where Arabica will not grow.
That is why people use it in many commercial coffee products ; it is also cheaper.
But Robusta tastes bitter and acidic, so people only drink it with other things.
Higher quality Robustas are in some espresso blends.
In the past people gave names to new Arabica coffees from the port they came from.
The two oldest Arabica coffees are Mocha and Java.
Today, names are more specific.
They tell us the country, region, and sometimes the estate where they come from.
HEADING Preparing coffee
HEADING Aging
Some sorts of coffee taste better when they are older, from three to eight years old.
This is called ageing, and it gives the coffee a less acidic taste.
HEADING Roasting
The roasting process is very important to make a good cup of coffee.
When we roast a coffee bean, it grows nearly two times bigger.
It changes from green to yellow to brown, and is harder.
When the roasting is shorter, the beans taste different ; you can taste where the bean comes from.
Because people roast coffee beans from famous regions -LRB- Java and Kenya -RRB- for a short time, they taste very different.
When the roasting is longer and the bean is dark brown, the taste of different sorts of coffee bean is not very different.
We can not often taste where the bean comes from.
You can also buy green -LRB- unroasted -RRB- coffee beans and roast them yourself at home in an oven.
HEADING Grinding
When we grind coffee, we press it very hard and it changes to a powder.
When we grind coffee finely -LRB- into very small pieces -RRB- the taste is stronger.
We often grind coffee less finely to stop it going through the coffee filter.
There are two main types of coffee plant : Coffea Arabica is the the traditional coffee that most of the world 's coffee comes from,, and Coffea Robusta which is easier to grow in places where Arabica will not grow.
HEADING Preparing coffee = =
Some sorts of coffee taste better if the beans are `` aged ''.
This means that after they are picked, the beans are kept from three to eight years old.
This `` aging '' gives the coffee a less acidic taste.
Coffee that has been aged is often mixed or `` blended '' with other coffee that is not aged.
`` Roasting '' is one of the important stages in making coffee beans into `` coffee ''.
When a coffee bean is roasted, it grows nearly two times bigger and changes from green to yellow to brown.
The length of time that the coffee beans are roasted makes the coffee taste different.
Some types of coffee, such as Mocha and Java, are roasted for a short time.
It is easy to tell, from the flavor, where the coffee comes from.
When coffee is roasted for a long time, it is harder to tell the different types apart.
Green coffee beans can be bought and roasted at home in the oven.
HEADING Grinding = = =
Before the coffee is made into a drink, it is `` ground '' in a small grinding machine called a `` coffee mill ''.
The coffee mill breaks the beans into very small pieces.
Coffee is turned into a drink in several different ways.
For some ways of making coffee, such as `` espresso '' it is best to have the cofffee ground into fine powder but for other types of coffee-making, such as `` filtered coffee '', the coffee is in larger pieces to stop it going through the filter.
Finely ground coffee makes a stronger taste.
HEADING Brewing = = =
Coffee is made into a drink by putting the coffee into boiling water.
This is called `` brewing '' coffee.
Boiling : The coffee and the water are put into a pot on top of the stove and boiled slowly together.
This way of making coffee has been used for hundreds of years.
It is the way that coffee is usually made in the Middle East, North Africa, Turkey and Greece.
Pressure : The boiling water is forced through the ground coffee by a machine.
This type of coffee is called Espresso and the machine is called an `` Espresso machine '' or `` Coffee system ''.
Espresso machines are often found in cafes and restaurants.
Espresso is a very strong coffee that can be used to make other coffee drinks.
Steeping : Boiling water is poured onto the coffee and it is allowed to stand for a little while, until the water has taken the color and flavor.
This is often done in a cafetière which is a tall glass or coffee pot which has a special filter inside that can be pushed down when the coffee is ready, so that the person does n't drink the coffee grouns, which are not nice.
Another way of steeping coffee is to have coffee grounds in a small satchell or packet, the right size to make one cup of coffee.
The satchell is placed in the cup and water poured over it.
Then the satchell is removed.
Café au lait is coffee made with a lot of hot milk.
It is often sweet.
Espresso is very strong coffee, usually drunk with sugar.
It is often called a `` short black ''.
A well-made cappuccino should be made of strong coffee.
When the frothy milk is poured gently into the coffee cup, it should be white on top and have a ring of darker coffee around the edge, like the ring of hair on the head of a monk.
Cappuccino coffee sometimes has cocoa sprinkled on top.
Flat white is made like a cappuccino but with a very thin layer of foam.
If the foam is added carefully, it can be made into patterns of hearts, leaves or feathers.
It is weaker than espresso, and tastes different.
Iced coffee is espresso in a tall glass with crushed ice, cold milk and ice cream.
Baby-cino is a little espresso cup filled with frothed milk, sprinkled with cocoa and served with a spoon.
There is no coffee in a baby-cino.
They are made to keep babys happy while their mothers are drinking coffee.
`` Instant coffee '' is a very quick way to make a cup of coffee to drink.
It is made in a factory and sold in jars or packets.
First strong coffee is made using ground coffee and boiling water.
Then the coffee grounds are filtered out.
The coffee liquid is dried out until nothing is left except granules -LRB- little crunchy pieces -RRB-, or fine powder.
This is the put into jars or packets.
As soon as a spoonfull of `` instant coffee '' is added to boiling water, it dissolves in the water to make coffee to drink.
The United States buys the most of coffee ; Germany is next.
People in Finland drink the most coffee for each person.
In Canada, the United States and Europe, some restaurants sell mainly coffee ; they are referred to as `` cafés '' or `` coffeehouses ''.
Cafés often sell food, but the type of food is different from one country to another.
Caffeine is a mild stimulant which helps to keep people awake.
Caffeine, like all drugs, can be addictive and can cause health problems.
Some studies have looked at the health risks of coffee.
In February 2003, there was a study in Denmark of 18,478 women to find out if coffee had an effect on pregnancy and birth.
It was found that if a woman drank between four and seven cups of coffee a day, it did not seem to make a big change to the number of babies that were born dead, -LRB- stillborn -RRB-.
But the women in the study who drank eight or more cups of coffee a day, had three times as much change of having a `` stillborn '' baby.
Hyenas eat meat -LRB- Hyenas are carnivores -RRB-.
Hyenas look like dogs, but are unrelated to them.
The members of the band were John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr.
Paul McCartney was knighted in 1997.
They made thirteen albums and many films.
The band remained very popular all over the world after their break up, according to the Guinness Book of World Records, they are the highest-selling recording artists of all time, and have sold over one billion records, including albums and singles.
Their music remains important, and influences many musicians to this day.
Recently an album titled `` 1 '', a collection of their number 1 hits, became the 8th highest selling album of all time.
Sir George Martin produced all of their albums and singles except for the album `` Let it Be '', which was produced by the famous 60s producer Phil Spector.
After the Beatles broke up in 1969, all four members started their own solo careers.
John Lennon became a very famous peace activist in the late 60s and early 70s, writing very successful songs including `` Give Peace a Chance '', `` Imagine '', and `` Happy Christmas -LRB- War is Over -RRB- '' which has become one of the world 's most well known Christmas songs.
Paul McCartney went on to form the band `` Wings '' with his wife Linda, which became one of the biggest bands of the 70s.
In 1977 his song, `` Mull of Kintyre '', became the biggest selling single in British history, outselling even the Beatles singles.
George Harrison and Ringo Starr had early success as solo artists but were less successful later on.
George formed the super group `` The Travelling Wilburys '' in the 80s with fellow rock legends Bob Dylan, Roy Orbison, Tom Petty and Jeff Lynne.
Ringo still tours the world with his `` All Starr Band ''.
John Lennon was murdered on December 8, 1980 outside his home in New York.
Part of Central Park in New York and an airport in London are named in his honor.
The other three Beatles got together in the 1990s to make two new records.
The songs were `` Free As A Bird '' and `` Real Love '' which were both top 5 hits in the U.K. in 1995\/96.
The Beatles have had number 1 records in England and America in every decade since the 60s.
The Beatles becoming so popular in America led to other British bands, such as the Rolling Stones, the Animals, the Kinks and Gerry and the Pacemakers having hits there as well.
So many British bands became popular following the Beatles ' success that this period became known in America as the `` British Invasion ''.
They were also named the most influential artists of all time by Rolling Stone magazine, due to the fact that their music, clothing style, and attitudes shaped much of what was popular among young people in the 1960s.
This led to them playing the first ever stadium rock concert at Shea Stadium in America to around 50,000 people.
Recently an album titled `` 1 '', a collection of their most popular songs, became the 8th highest selling album of all time.
George Martin produced all of their albums and singles except for the album `` Let it Be '', which was produced by the famous 1960s producer Phil Spector.
John Lennon became a very famous peace activist in the late 1960s and early 1970s, writing very successful songs including `` Give Peace a Chance '', `` Imagine '', and `` Happy Christmas -LRB- War is Over -RRB- '' which has become one of the world 's most well known Christmas songs.
Paul McCartney went on to form the band `` Wings '' with his wife Linda, which became one of the most popular bands of the 70s.
The Beatles have had number 1 records in England and America in every decade since the 1960s.
They also sold many singles -LRB- 45s -RRB-.
The Beatles were a very popular rock and pop band in the 1960s.
In November 1962 their song, ` Please Please Me ', reached the number 1 position on the British hit parade.
They first came to the United States in 1964, being met at the airport by thousands of screaming American teenagers.
The Beatles were so popular they were attacked by screaming fans everywhere they went around the world.
The effect they had on their fans was known as ` Beatlemania '.
li -LCB- text-transform : none ; -RCB-
In fact 43% of the people living in Melbourne were born outside Australia or have parents from another country.
All together people from 233 countries live in Melbourne and people with 116 different religions.
The greenhouse effect is a way that the sun 's rays make the planet warmer.
The greenhouse effect that warms the planet is not the same effect that warms a greenhouse or makes the inside of a car hot.
There is a natural greenhouse effect : this makes the Earth about 30 oC warmer than it would be.
There is a man-made greenhouse effect : this is believed to be making the Earth get warmer.
The gases carbon dioxide, methane, and chlorofluorocarbons make the atmosphere less transparent to heat, so the Earth might get warmer.
Scientists think that weather has been especially warm the last few years.
This warming is probably caused by the things that human beings are doing.
The greenhouse effect was first discovered by Joseph Fourier in 1824.
Mars, Venus and other planets with atmospheres also have greenhouse effects.
Radiation is a process in physics where particles or energy are emitted from something.
There are many types of radiation, including :
electromagnetic radiation, which consists of photons
gamma radiation, which is high-energy electromagnetic waves
partical radiation, in which small pieces of matter are radiated, which include :
alpha radiation, made of helium nuclei
beta radiation, made of energetic electrons or positrons
neutron radiation, made of neutrons
Radiation can be produced by many different things.
Some radiation can go through the human body and other objects.
Usually when people use the term radiation, they are talking specifically about potentially harmful types of radiation.
He earned a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering in 1951, and received a Doctorate of Science in Astronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology -LRB- MIT -RRB- in 1963.
He earned a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering from the military academy West Point in 1951, and received a Doctorate of Science in Astronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology -LRB- MIT -RRB- in 1963.
He earned a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering from the military academy West Point in 1951, and after his graduate studies at the MIT he received a Doctorate of Science in Astronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology -LRB- MIT -RRB- in 1963.
He earned a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering from the military academy West Point in 1951, and after his graduate studies he received a Doctorate of Science in Astronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology -LRB- MIT -RRB- in 1963.
He earned a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering from the military academy West Point in 1951, and after his postgraduate studies he received a Doctorate of Science in Astronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology -LRB- MIT -RRB- in 1963.
He earned a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering from the military academy West Point in 1951, and after going to graduate school, he received a Doctorate of Science in Astronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology -LRB- MIT -RRB- in 1963.
He earned a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering from the military academy West Point in 1951, and after graduate and postgraduate studies, he received a Doctorate of Science in Astronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology -LRB- MIT -RRB- in 1963.
Dr. Edwin Eugene `` Buzz '' Aldrin, Jr., retired Colonel -LRB- born January 20, 1930 -RRB- is an American pilot and astronaut.
From the Gustavus-Adolphus-College he received a Doctorate of science.
He received an honorary Doctorate of Science from Gustavus-Adolphus-College in 1967.
If the person who has TB coughs, sneezes or spits without covering their mouth, they spread the bacteria more widely.
If a person lives with someone who has TB, there is a 22% chance that they will also be infected with the disease.
The base of these ideas comes from the works of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels.
The city has about 366.000 people living in it.
The canton Zurich is the biggest canton of Switzerland, by the number of people living in it.
In the city Zurich, most of the people work in the commerce part of the economy.
A hacker is a confusing person that uses drugs who likes to do new things with computers.
One not right meaning of the word hacker is `` someone who tries to get into another person 's computer using computer software such as Trojan horse programs, computer viruses, and worms that can hurt other people 's computers ''.
The correct name for a person doing these bad things is cracker, but many news stories use hacker even though it is not right.
The older meaning of the word hacker is `` someone who knows a lot about computers, and likes to do new and not the same or hard-to-do things with them ''.
This meaning of the word hacker is usually a -LRB- a nice thing to say -RRB-.
A not the same meaning of hacker is someone who can change or program something, like how people can change or program a Furby to say something mean or funny.
Most people say `` communism '' when they mean the Marxist and Leninist ideas of Russia 's Bolshevik party.
Others call this ` State Socialism ', to distinguish it from the communist goal that does n't require a state or any form of government.
The word ` socialism ' is now mostly used for attempts to come close to this goal in a democratic state.
Under a socialist system, everything is controlled by the government without giving a fair amount of a good or money back to the builders of the capital ; where investments, production, distribution, income, and prices are determined by government laws that regulate the transfer of money, goods -LRB- including capital goods -RRB-, and services primarily through taxes and average and institutionalized aggressive coercion.
Many of the most well known oppressive dictatorships have been socialist, such as the Soviet Union, Democratic Kampuchea, and Nazi Germany, though all used different kinds of socialism.
The governing rulers in socialist society generaly disagree on passing laws, but this is not so different than other governments.
In general, Socialist systems want to redistribute wealth from those of greater means to those of lesser means.
Socialism, in plain terms, is an economic or governmental system in which the public - or the state - own or manage major industries.
The Party ended up dividing into two groups, the Bolsheviks was one group.
The Party ended up dividing into two groups, the Bolsheviks were one group.
Saddam Hussein1 was the President of Iraq from 1979 to 2003.
This party believed in uniting all people that lived in the Middle East, economic modernization, and socialism.
He gave some of his political power to Saddam.
Saddam controlled conflict between government departments and the army at a time when many people were able to take over the government.
Iraq 's economy grew fast in the 1970s.
Saddam became President for real in 1979.
He kept power during the bad Iran-Iraq War -LRB- 1980-1988 -RRB- and the first fell, and the government did not respect human rights.
Subha Tulfah al-Mussallat, his mother, remarried, and Saddam gained three half-brothers through this marriage.
On the 30th of December 2006 Hussein was hanged, after being convicted of a mass murder he ordered in 1982.
- December 30 2006 -RRB-, was the President of Iraq, from July 16 1979 to April 9 2003, when he was removed from his position as dictator during the War in Iraq led by the United States.
All of the different religions and the violence of the war that this had created, caused after-war rebellions.
After the war, fighting between Shi'ite Muslims, Kurds, and dissident military units was bad.
This was a problem to Saddam 's rule.
Saddam acted by stopping all rebellions in their tracks, especially in the North.
The United States did not help the rebellions, although they had wanted Iraqis to rise up against Saddam.
Turkey - a friend of the US - was against Kurdish independence, which would have stopped the fighting.
This was because the Saudis and old-fashioned Arab states were afraid of a change like what happened in Iran with the Shiites.
Saddam survived these problems that happened right after the war.
He was then left completely in control of Iraq.
The country never recovered from the Gulf War, economically or with the army.
Hussein often showed his `` proof '' that Iraq had won the Gulf War, and the USA had lost.
This made Saddam popular in many parts of the Arab world.
Saddam liked to show himself has a strict Muslim.
This was to calm down the religious parts of the society.
Some parts of the Sharia law were brought back.
This included the 2001 law imposing the death penalty for homosexuality -LRB- gay people. -RRB-
The phrase `` Allahu Akbar '' -LRB- `` God is great '' -RRB-, in Saddam 's handwriting, was added to the Iraq national flag.
HEADING After the War
Saddam Hussein was hanged on December 30 2006.
Although Saddam was placed at the top of the `` most-wanted list, '' efforts to find him did nothing, even when the other leaders of the Iraqi regime were arrested.
His sons and political heirs, Uday and Qusay, were killed in July 2003 in an engagement with U.S. forces after a tip from an Iraqi.
On December 14, 2003, the Islamic Republic News Agency -LRB- IRNA -RRB- of Iran first reported that Saddam Hussein had been arrested.
He was found at approximately 8:30 PM Iraqi time on December 13, in an underground `` spider hole '' at a farmhouse in ad-Dawr near his home town Tikrit, in what was called Operation Red Dawn.
The DNA tests came back and showed that he really was Saddam Hussein.
His first marriage was to his first cousin Sajida Talfah.
This union with the eldest daughter of Khairallah Talfah, Saddam 's uncle produced two sons, -LRB- Uday Saddam Hussein and Qusay Hussein -RRB- and three daughters, Rana, Raghad and Hala.
Saddam Hussein also married two other women : Samira Shahbandar, whom he married in 1986 after forcing her husband to divorce her -LRB- she is said to be his favorite wife -RRB-, and Nidal al-Hamdani, the general manager of the Solar Energy Research Center in the Council of Scientific Research, whose husband apparently was also persuaded to divorce his wife.
Saddam had a son, Ali, by Samira.
It is used to describe various political philosophies and social movements that promote getting rid of all forms of imposed authority, including social hierarchy and power supported by force.
Instead of hierarchy these movements want relations based on voluntary cooperation and help between people.
This should lead to society where every person has a say in outcomes just a much as a person is affected by it.
These philosophies use anarchy to mean a society based on voluntary cooperation of free persons.
Philosophical anarchist thought does not promote chaos or anomie -- in this thought `` anarchy '' is a way of relations between people that is put into place and maintained.
While individual freedom and opposition to the state are important beliefs of anarchism, anarchism is much more than that.
There are also considerable differences between the anarchist political philosophies.
There are several opinions on areas ranging from the role of violence in fostering anarchism, to the preferred type of economic system, to the relationship between technology and hierarchy, the interpretation of egalitarian ideals, and the desirability of various forms of organization.
UNIX is a computer operating system.
It was developed during the late 1960s at Bell Labs.
The system is a multiuser and multiprocessing system.
Also, many people can use it at the same time.
Many ideas that were in UNIX were new.
Other operating systems copied them.
Today, there are many operating systems that have some of the ideas of UNIX in them.
For this reason, some people talk about a `` UNIX philosophy '' of doing things.
One of these systems with many of the UNIX idea in it, is called Linux.
Linux does not have common code with UNIX, it only shares some of the ideas.
Therefore Linux is not a UNIX operating system.
There can be many different users in an UNIX-like operating system.
Most of them have a personal area where they can put things.
This is called an account, like a bank account, which only holds money.
The X Window System is only a shell of a graphical interface.
It is made of many protocols.
It also is network oriented ; which means that it is meant to operate in a network of computers.
This is an extremely powerful and flexible way of working, because it allows things to be done automatically, and is still used by most UNIX users and administrators.
In the UK it is very common for people to have a signature which is just made from writting their name in their own writing, but in Côte d'Ivoirefor example young adults spend many months practicing ornate signatures which are difficult to copy and not in any way readable.
In the UK it is very common for people to have a signature which is just made from writting their name in their own writing, but in Côte d'Ivoire for example young adults spend many months practicing ornate signatures which are difficult to copy and not in any way readable.
Most people will know Cocoa as a ground powder they use to produce Chocolate.
Hot chocolate is a drink wich has similar effects as coffee.
Usually they make the drink by adding hot milk and sugar to the powder.
Cocoa butter is thwn used to produce chocolate.
Most people will know Cocoa as a ground powder they use to produce chocolate.
Then the beans are spread out, constantly rakeed over, and dried.
HEADING Issues with growing and selling cocoa
HEADING External links
Hot chocolate is a drink which has similar effects to coffee.
The tree might have first come from the foothills of the Andes Mountains near the Amazon River and the Orinoco River in South America.
The tree was brought to Central America by the ancient Mayas, and was grown in Mexico by the Toltecs and later by the Aztecs.
At one time it was also known as the Ivory Coast, and it is still called that by some USA writers but Ivoiry Coast is no longer the official name.
However since the mid 1980s falling prices for coffee and cocoa, the death of the first president and civil war have made things much harder for Ivorians.
The Republic of Cote ` dIvoire is a country in west Africa.
People who live there speak French.
It used to be called the Ivory Coast.
Some people in the USA still call it this, but it is not the official name.
Coffee, cocoa, bananas and rubber are all sold from here.
From the 1960s to mid 1980s Cote d'Ivoire was managed well by the government.
There was one president for this time.
Since the mid 1980s the country became hard to live in.
The cost of coffee and cocoa went down so people could not make as much money.
The first president died.
There was a civil war.
In this match McCormick set a new club record of seven clean sheets in a row.
Cartoon that tells about Libertarianism available in :
English
French
Portuguese
Spanish, & # Danish
This page is about the common American and British idea of libertarianism -LRB- free-market individualism -RRB-.
This page is about free-market individualism.
Other people -LRB- especially in Europe and Latin America -RRB- use the word libertarianism to refer to libertarian socialism -LRB- see anarchism -RRB-
Some people -LRB- especially in Europe and Latin America -RRB- use the word libertarianism to refer to `` libertarian socialism '' -LRB- see anarchism -RRB-
Libertarianism is an idea about ethics.
This idea leads libertarians to oppose slavery, rape, theft, murder, and all other examples of initiated violence.
It also leads libertarians to want to limit government power as much as possible.
Libertarians are people who believe in libertarianism.
Libertarianism grew out of liberalism as a movement in the 1800s.
It also has roots in individualist anarchism and the Austrian School of economics.
HEADING Individual rights
Libertarians believe that no person can justly own or control the body of another person.
Why not ?
Because libertarians believe in what they call `` self-ownership '' or `` individual sovereignty. ''
Basically, this means that every person has a right to control her or his own body.
In the 1800s, libertarians like William Lloyd Garrison, Frederick Douglass, and Lysander Spooner were all abolitionists.
Abolitionists were people who wanted to end slavery right away.
Garrison based his opposition to slavery on the idea of self-ownership.
Since you have a natural right to control your own body, no one else has any right to steal that control from you.
Garrison and Douglass both called slave masters `` man stealers. ''
HEADING Stopping violence
If you have a right to control your own body, then no one has a right to start violence or force -RRB- against you.
Some libertarians believe that all violence -LRB- or force -RRB- is unjust.
These libertarians are often called `` anarcho-pacifists. ''
Robert LeFevre was a libertarian who rejected all violence -LRB- or force -RRB-.
Most libertarians reject this view.
Most libertarians believe that one may use violence -LRB- or force -RRB- in self defense.
If someone starts violence against you, you have a right to defend yourself with equal and opposing force.
But you must not use too much force.
The libertarian Murray N. Rothbard said that it would be wrong to kill someone for stealing a pack of gum.
If you steal gum, this is an act of violence -LRB- or force -RRB- against the property owner.
The owner has a right to use defensive violence -LRB- or force -RRB- to get the gum back.
But killing the thief goes too far.
That is too much force because it is not `` equal and opposing '' force.
Punishment must be equal to the crime.
Some libertarians believe that it is your moral duty to defend yourself and your property if you can.
This belief is usually held by Objectivists.
These people belive that pacifism is immoral.
Most libertarians reject this view.
All libertarians believe that it is wrong to start violence against any person or against her\/his legitimate property.
In fact, libertarians call this the `` nonaggression axiom '' or the `` nonaggression principle. ''
HEADING Property
Ownership is the right to control something.
Libertarians believe that property rights come from self-ownership.
If you have a right to control your own body, you also have a right to control those scarce things you make with your body.
The English philosopher John Locke said that a person comes to own something through `` mixing '' her\/his body -LRB- or labor -RRB- with the scarce thing.
So, if you use your body to turn an acre of unowned ground into a farm, that acre becomes your property.
This is called the `` homestead principle. ''
Libertarians also say that you can also become a legitimate owner by receiving something as a gift or through trade.
But you do not become a legitimate owner by stealing.
You also do not become a legitimate owner by simply saying you owe something.
If you have not `` homesteaded '' the thing or received it through trade or gift, you do not own it.
HEADING Government
Libertarians are opposed to states -LRB- or governments -RRB- creating any `` laws '' that tell people what they can and can not do with their own bodies.
The only legitimate laws are laws that say a person may not start violence against other people or their legitimate property.
All `` laws '' stopping people from doing nonviolent things should be repealed, according to libertarians.
-LRB- These `` laws '' are usually called `` victimless crimes '' because there is no victim if there is no violence. -RRB-
In most countries, the state -LRB- or government -RRB- takes tax money from the people.
All libertarians support cutting taxes back, and some libertarians believe the state should not take tax money at all.
Tax evasion -LRB- refusal to pay taxes to the state -RRB- is a victimless crime.
Libertarians would prefer to see taxtion replaced with lotteries, user fees, and endowments.
Libertarians think everyone should be allowed to decide what is good or bad for her\/his own body.
Libertarians think if people want to drive cars without wearing seat belts, it is their own choice.
They should not be forcibly stopped from doing that, not even by the state.
If a person wants to donate all of her\/his money to a charity, or waste it all gambling, that is also something she\/he should decide for herself\/himself.
No one should forcibly stopped from doing that, not even by the state.
Libertarians even say that if adults people want to use harmful drugs, they should be allowed to do that, even if it spoils their lives.
It is the drug user 's own choice because it is the drug user 's own body.
As long as the drug user does not start using violence against other people or their legitimate property, no one should use violence against the drug user or the drug user 's legitimate property, not even the government.
Many libertarians also believe that families and friends should look after people so that they will not use drugs, drive without seat belts, or do other things that are dangerous for them.
But no one can force others to do things that they do not want to do, or to stop them from doing nonviolent things that they want to do.
HEADING Types of Libertarians
There are two basic types of libertarians.
All libertarians fall into one of these two broad types.
HEADING Minarchism
Minarchists are libertarians who believe that society should have a state with very limited power.
They typically believe that the only things the state should have are police and judges to make sure that people obey the laws.
Some also believe in having a military to make sure that no one attacks the country.
Some minarchists believe in having a small amount of taxation.
Two famous minarchist libertarians are Robert Nozick and Ayn Rand.
Nozick believed that the only legitimate thing a state can do is have a police force.
He called his legitimate state a `` night-watchman state. ''
Rand believed that the state should have police and judges, but that it should fund itself through lotteries and not through taxation.
HEADING Anarchism
Libertarian anarchists usually call themselves anarcho-capitalists, free-market anarchists, individualist anarchists, just just anarchists.
Libertarian anarchists do not believe the state is needed.
They believe that people can organise their own lives and businesses.
They want to replace the state with voluntary organizations, including charities, private companies, voluntary unions, and mutual aid societies.
They also want to end all forced taxation.
They say that state police can be replaced with `` DROs '' -LRB- defense resolution organizations -RRB- or `` private protection agencies. ''
They also say that state judges can be replaced with `` private arbitrarion. ''
The most famous libertarian anarchist was Murray N. Rothbard.
Others include Lysander Spooner, Benjamin R. Tucker, and Linda & Morris Tannehill.
HEADING Other types
All libertarians fall under one of the two types of libertarians listed above.
But there are other types, too.
Libertarian constitutionalists are minarchists who believe that the only legitimate things a state can do are those things that have been approved in a constitution.
Libertarian constitutionalists include Ron Paul.
Agorists are revolutionary libertarian anarchists who believe that we should fight the state through what they call `` counter-economics. ''
Agorists include Samuel Edward Konkin, III and Brad Spangler.
Objectivists are minarchists who believe many things.
They believe in atheism.
They believe that humans are able to know things.
They believe reason is the only path to truth.
And they believe that what they call capitalism is the only ethical system of government.
Objectivists include Ayn Rand.
-LRB- There are also some `` anarcho-Objectivists, '' such as Linda & Morris Tannehill and Roy A. Childs, Jr.. -RRB-
Left-libertarians and left-Rothbardians are libertarian anarchists who believe that a free market system will lead to more equality, not less.
They are often very open to ideas such as `` worker self-management '' and feminism.
Left-libertarians include Benjamin R. Tucker and Roderick T. Long.
Anarcho-pacifists are anarchists who believe that no force is ever legitimate, not even in self defense.
Although Robert LeFevre did not call himself an `` anarcho-pacifist '' -LRB- or even an `` anarchist '' -RRB-, he was one.
Autarchism is another word for libertarian anarchism.
It means `` self-rule. ''
Robert LeFevre used this word to describe himself.
Geolibertarians are a type of minarchist.
They believe that the only legitimate thing a state can do is tax, and that the only legitimate tax is a tax on land.
This is often called the `` single tax. ''
Voluntaryism is another term for libertarian anarchism.
Voluntaryists believe that only voluntary actions are legitimate.
This means that all government force is illegitimate.
The first libertarian to call himself a voluntaryist was Auberon Herbert.
Regarded as the root of Christianity, it is the largest single religious group in the world.
Catholics believe that some of the official statements that the Pope makes about their religion are true and can not be proved incorrect -LRB- an idea called infallibility -RRB- ; there are conditions on when the Pope is considered infallible.
The Pope is the pastoral and temporal leader not only of the Roman Catholic Church, but of Eastern Catholic Churches.
The Eastern Orthodox Churches practice a religion similar to the Catholic Church commonly referred to as the Roman Catholic Church.
Jesus Christ is established the Catholic Church and his love is the primary example for Catholics to live in their daily life.
Catholics believe that Jesus Christ died so that all may have ever-lasting life.
Some of the traditional worship practices of Roman Catholics include making the sign of the cross, kneeling, bowing, and receiving the Eucharist during their worship ceremonies.
Roman Catholicism -LRB- Catholic meaning ` universal ' -RRB- is the Christian church which is from the Apostles of two thousand years ago, represented by the Bishops and the Pope, their chief.
Roman Catholicism -LRB- Catholic meaning ` universal ' -RRB- is the Christian sect which claims to date back to the Apostles of two thousand years ago, centered in Rome, Italy, and led by the Bishops and the Pope -LRB- the Bishop of Rome -RRB- as their chief.
The leader of the Roman Catholic church is called the Pope, which literally means `` father. ''
Catholics put more emphasis on the Virgin Mary -LRB- Jesus 's mother -RRB- than other Christian sects, calling her the `` Mother of God, '' `` The Queen of Heaven, '' and praying to her regularly, as `` Mediatrix of graces '' at a level higher than the mediation of other saints.
They disagree on the role of saints and the role of Mary -LRB- the mother of Jesus -RRB-, on what a priest can do, and on how exactly God should be worshipped, among other things.
Coins from 10 cents to 10 dollars ; bank-notes from $ 10 to $ 1000.
Kowloon-Canton Railway -LRB- KCR -RRB-
Hong Kong Park
Yuen Po Street Bird Garden
Lantau Link Visitors ' Viewing Centre
Sham Tung Uk
The serial novel 44 Scotland Street by Alexander McCall Smith took place in New Town, Edinburgh.
Vladimir Ilyich Lenin -LRB- real name : Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov -RRB- -LRB- Born April 22 -LRB- April 10 O.S. -RRB-,1870 - Died January 21, 1924 -RRB- was a Russian revolutionary, the leader of the Bolsheviks party.
He was the first leader of the Soviet Union -LRB- Russia and it 's Allies, under Socialist yoke, which was formally called USSR -RRB-.
He is also known as the maker of the thinking Leninism that later was called Marxism-Leninism by Joseph Stalin.
However, in 1887, he was thrown out from Kazan University for being too radical and protesting against the Tsar, who was the leader of Russia at that time.
While studying Law in the Russian Capital, St Petersburg, he learned about the thoughts of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels.
He traveled around Europe, visiting many socialist meetings and events.
During this time he lived in different places like London, Paris and, during World War I, in Geneva.
Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov -LRB- Russian :, IPA : vla 'd im r ilj ` it ul ` jan f -RRB-, better known as -LRB- -RRB- -RRB- -LRB- April 22, 1870 - January 21, 1924 -RRB- was a Russian revolutionary and the leader of the Bolsheviks party.
He is also known as the maker of Leninism, which was later called Marxism-Leninism by Joseph Stalin.
While he studied Law in the Russian capital, St. Petersburg, he learned about the thoughts of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels.
He began to publish a Marxist newspaper called Iskra, the Russian word for `` spark ''.
This dispute, which was about the organization of the Party, divided the party in two.
Lenin wanted a strict, centralised, and disciplined model.
Martov wanted a less strict, less centralised one.
Martov 's helpers became known as Mensheviks -LRB- meaning `` those who are less '' -RRB-.
Lenin 's supporters were called Bolsheviks -LRB- `` those who are more '' -RRB-.
Martov 's helpers became known as Mensheviks -LRB- meaning `` those who are less '' -RRB-.
Lenin 's supporters were called Bolsheviks -LRB- `` those who are more '' -RRB-.
After Nicholas II stopped to be a Tsar during the February Revolution, Lenin went back to Russia.
An amount of computer storage equivalent to approximately 1 billion bytes or 1,000 megabytes -LRB- 1024 MB to be exact -RRB-.
A Constellation is a group of stars.
Some examples of constellations are the Big Dipper -LRB- Ursa Major -RRB-, Orion, and Andromeda.
People began to make constellations to help to remember which and how stars were located.
The way to make constellations is different in areas, but today astronomy has a fixed set of 88 constellations.
This set is based on Greek set and later some southern constellations were added, for example Antlia - the air pump.
Twelve constellations make the Zodiac where the Sun seems to rotate in a year.
There is also a thirteenth constellation Ophiuchus - the carrier of a serpent, which the Sun goes through.
However, most people do not think that it is in the Zodiac.
A constellation is a group of stars.
People began to make constellations to help to remember where stars were located.
Different places in the world may have different constellations, but today astronomy has a fixed set of 88 constellations.
This set is based on the Greek set and later some southern constellations were added, for example Antlia - the air pump.
There are twelve constellations in the Zodiac.
The Sun travels through the Zodiac once each year.
In many religions '' ' Hell '' ' is a place where souls of dead people go after their life ends.
A god Hades governs Hell.
In Christianity Hell is a bad place where souls of people who do not worship Jesus go and wait for the Last Judgement.
An Italian poet Dante wrote in his Divine Comedy his visit to Hell with Vergilius Maro.
They entered into Hell from a hole in Jerusalem which was believed to be a center of the world in the medieval time.
In many religions, Hell is a place where souls of dead people go after their lives end.
In plenty of other religions, including Christianity, Hell is a place where the souls of dead people go after their lives end, if they have done evil things in life, and did not accept Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior.
Today the town Königsberg is part of Russia, and is renamed Kaliningrad.
In Kant 's time it was the second largest city in the kingdom of Prussia.
He studied there until 1746 when his father died, then left Königsberg to take up a job as tutor.
After a time, he became the tutor of Count Kayserling, and his family.
He was made the second librarian of the Royal Library in 1766.
Kant was eventually given the Chair of Logic and Metaphysics at the University of Königsberg.
He was offered a job as professor of poetry in Königsberg university, but he turned it down.
Kant was very shocked by Hume, and saw the theory he had learned in a new point of view.
He began to try finding a third way other than the two that Kant called `` skepticism '' and `` dogmaticism ''.
That person is the aunt 's -LRB- male -RRB- or -LRB- female -RRB-.
Homer -LRB- Greek language Hóm ros -RRB- was a very well-known Greek poet in very early days or even a poet in mythology.
The Greek oldest two epics Iliad and Odysseia have been usually considered his works during thousands years.
Since scholars think each two poems began to be edited into a work from various sources in the late of the 8th century B.C., Homer was the first European poet whose name we know.
Both works were made in hexameter and in Ionian accent of early days ' Greek which was spoken in the Greek region of Ionia in Asia Minor.
They pick up the events during the Trojan war in old stories, what gods and heros did in the war.
Most of scholars think both works were n't written down in early days but recited by mouth.
They become the style we know today perhaps in early Athene in the 6th century B.C. In those days it was began to write them down.
Those two epics gave not only influence to the early-days people but also the people now.
Even today people think those works as masterpieces in the world literature.
Besides those two works, some epics and poems have once thought as Homer 's works but today scholars think most of those works were written by others ' hands.
According to what Greeks believed, he was a blind poet and lived in Ionia, a region of Asia Minor.
It was the late 18th century that argument arose on if he was really living or not.
Homer is the name of the Greek poet who wrote the epic poems `` The Iliad '' and `` The Odyssey ''.
Not much is known about him, or even if he was a real person.
Some people think it was really a group of people who made those poems.
Other people think Homer was really a woman.
According to legend, Homer was a blind poet who lived in Ionia.
It is thought that he lived around 800 BC.
Today, `` the date of Homer '' means the date of the writing of the poems as much as to the time of the life of Homer.
The people that think that the poems that Homer wrote -LRB- called Homeric poems -RRB- were made slowly over a long period of time, however, generally give a later date for the poems : according to Gregory Nagy, they became fixed texts in only the 6th century.
This article is about the well known poet of Ancient Greece.
Other people think that Homer was really a woman.
According to legend, he was a blind poet who lived in Ionia.
http://upge.wn.com/?t=ancientgreece/index17.txt The aims and facts found of Homeric studies have changed.
In the last few centuries, they have mostly been about the process by which the Homeric poems were written and were over time to us, first orally and later in writing.
The people that think that the poems that Homer wrote -LRB- called Homeric poems -RRB- were made slowly over a long period of time, however, generally -LRB- most of the time -RRB- give a later date for the poems : according to Gregory Nagy, they became fixed texts in only the 6th century.
Once he had grown up, he had troubles with the authorities several times.
Whipping a prostitute.
In prison, he started to read about philosophy.
After the French Revolution, he got out of the asylum, but in 1803 was declared mentally ill -LRB- and again was sent to the asylum -RRB-.
He died in the asylum in 1814 at the age of 74.
In formal set theory, an ordinal number -LRB- sometimes simply called an `` ordinal '' for short -RRB- is one of the numbers in Georg Cantor 's extension of the whole numbers.
An ordinal number is defined as the order type of a well ordered set.
Finite ordinal numbers are commonly denoted using arabic numerals, while transfinite ordinals as denoted using lower case Greek letters.
Every finite totally ordered set is well ordered.
Any two totally ordered sets with k elements -LRB- where k is an nonnegative integer -RRB- are order isomorphic, and therefore have the same order type -LRB- which is also an ordinal number -RRB-.
The ordinals for finite sets are denoted 0, 1, 2, 3,..., i.e., by the integers one less than the corresponding nonnegative integers that count the set members.
The first transfinite ordinal, denoted by the Greek lower case letter omega, is the order type of the set of nonnegative integers.
Luther started his own church, called the Lutheran Church with his friend Philip Melanchton.
Luther died in 1546.
That way they were no longer depending on the priest to tell them what was in the bible, but could read it themselves.
Martin Luther -LRB- November 10, 1483 in Eisleben - February 18, 1546 in Eisleben -RRB- was a German monk and theologian of Christianity, and later the founder of the Lutheran Church, the first church of Protestantism, split from the Roman Catholic.
After Luther studied philosophy at the University of Erfurt.
In 1505 he entered into the Augustinian Order as a monk.
Luther studied and ancient languages in Erfurt.
In October 1517 Luther wrote his 95 Theses, although he did not put them on a Church in Wittenberg as the legend says, but published a copy.
Luther called them The Disputation of Doctor Martin Luther on the Power and Efficacy of Indulgences.
It questioned the teaching of western Church and its ideas about penance, the authority of the Pope and the usefulness of `` indulgences ''.
At that time, the Catholic Church was saying that they were allowed to decide who could go to Heaven after death, and they were selling indulgences for money to tell them they could go to Heaven.
First Luther believed that he could reform -LRB- change -RRB- the Roman Church from the inside with his Theses, but the Papacy took his attitude as heresy and excommunicated him in June 15 1520 with a paper saying he did not have their permission to go to Heaven.
In the castle, he translated the Bible.
First he wrote the New Testament in German instead of the original Greek : Later he translated the Old Testament into German, too.
Until then, the Holy Mass and the Bible were in Latin.
He is credited with starting the Protestant Reformation.
As this happened, what are now called Protestant churches split from the Roman Catholic church.
He started the Lutheran Church, the first church of Protestantism.
In 1505, he entered into the Augustinian Order as a monk.
In October 1517 Luther wrote his 95 Theses.
Many people think that he put them on the door of a church in Wittenberg, but he did not.
Instead, he published a copy.
It questioned the teaching of the western Church and its ideas about penance, the authority of the Pope and the usefulness of `` indulgences ''.
Luther thought that this was all wrong, and was against the Bible.
After studying the Letters of Paul, especially the Letter to Romans, Luther came up with an idea called `` sola fide ''.
This means that faith is the only way that people can get salvation from God.
According to sola fide, this would mean that many church customs were useless, and should be cast away.
First, Luther believed that he could reform -LRB- change -RRB- the Roman Church from the inside -LRB- while still being a part of the Church -RRB- with his Theses, but the Papacy took his as heresy and excommunicated him on June 15 1520 with a paper saying he did not have their permission to go to Heaven.
For Luther, it was the last chance to say he had been wrong.
With the help of a friend, Luther hid in Wartburg Castle, near Erfurt.
First, he wrote the New Testament in German instead of the original Greek.
Later, he translated the Old Testament into German, too.
Most people went to Mass, and did not understand what the priest said because they did not speak Latin.
That way, they were no longer depending on the priest to tell them what was in the Bible, but could read it themselves.
Luther started his own church, called the Lutheran Church, with his friend Philip Melanchton.
The performancers use masks and dance slowly.
Usually, all Noh players are male.
There are three type of Noh players : shite, waki and kyogen.
Waki -LRB- meaning Side -RRB- plays the sidekick of Shite and usually plays a traveller roll in a certain place.
He introduces us into the world in the drama.
Kyogen appears midst of the drama if the drama has two parts and plays a roll of the local citizen.
He talks to Waki and make Waki notice what he has n't noticed before their talk.
Noh is comprised of mai -LRB- dances -RRB-, hayashi -LRB- music -RRB- and utai -LRB- words usually in songs -RRB-.
The performers use masks and dance slowly.
Usually, all Noh players are men.
When a woman or girl appears in the drama, a man actor play her role with a woman mask.
Youji -LRB- -RRB- - Manga for people aged 1-4.
Kodomo -LRB- or Jidou -RRB- manga -LRB- -RRB- - manga that appeals to many small children.
Weekly Shônen Jump -LRB- Published by Shueisha -RRB-
Ciao -LRB- Published by Shogakukan -RRB-
Chuchu -LRB- Published by Shogakukan -RRB-
Ribon -LRB- Published by Shueisha -RRB-
Nakayoshi -LRB- Published by Kodansha -RRB-
LaLa -LRB- Published by Hakusensha -RRB-
Hana to yume -LRB- Published by Hakusensha -RRB-
Seinen - manga that is written for young men.
Young animal -LRB- Published by Hakusensha -RRB-
Seijin -LRB- -RRB- - manga that might appeal to men more than women.
Josei\/Redikomi -LRB- -RRB- - -LRB- Abbreviation of English `` LADIes ' COMIc '' -RRB- manga that might appeal to women more than men.
Shônen ai -LRB- -RRB- - manga that features a romantic relationship between two male characters.
Shôjo ai -LRB- -RRB- - manga that features a romantic relationship between two female characters.
Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels were infuenced by those theories.
They thought that the people would be more productive if they owned a part of the company they worked for.
However, the word has the exact opposite meaning from most other countries in the United States, where `` liberals '' are the people who want lots of taxes and a big government that is like a mother or father telling everybody what to do.
Liberalism is a way of thinking about politics and government.
Liberals -LRB- the people who believe in liberalism -RRB- think that freedom means that governments should usually leave people alone.
But the word `` liberal '' has the reverse meaning in the United States, where `` liberals '' think that the government should have an active role in helping minorities and other oppressed groups.
This is a very debatable ideal, because some people say that higher taxes and a large government are needed to help these groups.
HEADING What Liberals Think
personal freedom - Everyone has the right to make decisions for themselves as long as they do not hurt anyone else or break their things.
limited government - The main reason that governments exist is to protect personal freedom.
This means that governments must protect people and their property.
free markets - People should be able to buy anything from anyone and sell anything to anyone, as long as they are not hurting people.
peace - People should not start wars or undertake violence.
Many liberals believe in natural law.
Natural law is a way of thinking that says that everyone has the right to life, freedom, and personal belongings.
This means that we should let nobody kill anyone else, we should not stop people from doing what they want as long as they do not hurt anyone, and we should not take away people 's things without their agreement.
Liberals believe in natural law because they think it is the right way for humans to treat each other.
Some liberals are economists instead.
They do not try to find the right way for people to treat each other.
Instead, they try to find out how people should treat one another if they want to have a lot of belongings.
They say that everyone does better if people do not hurt each other and people do not break each other 's personal belongings or property.
When philosophers -LRB- or thinkers -RRB- talk about Liberalism, they often mention some names.
Those names usually are John Stuart Mill and Jeremy Bentham for the 19th century.
Isaiah Berlin for the 20th century.
When they talk about free market economy, they will probably mention Adam Smith.
Adam Smith wrote a lot about free markets - in the 18th century.
Those theories influenced Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, too.
They thought that the people would be more productive if they owned a part of the company they worked for.
This was called Socialism.
HEADING Differences between Liberalism in Europe and the USA
Liberalism does not mean the same in Europe and the United States.
In Europe liberals are right wing.
They are more conservative and think economic freedom is more important than personal freedom.
In the United States it 's the opposite.
American liberals are progressive, they think personal freedom is more important than economic freedom.
People who are liberals in America would probably be called social democrats in Europe.
But sometimes social democracy in Europe limits economic freedom more than most American liberals would support.
Libertarians are often called liberals in Europe and the United States.
Libertarians think people should have much personal and much economic freedom.
HEADING How to know who is a Liberal
In America liberals can be found in Republicans and Democrats political parties, such as Reform and Constitution parties.
In Britain, there are liberals in all three major parties - Labour, Conservative, and Liberal Democrat - and also in the UK Independence Party.
Even though this party is called Liberals Democrats, the Liberal Democratic Party in Britain is mostly made of people who think government should be committed to `` social justice '' and the state welfare with a belief in economic freedom and competitive markets.
Some liberals can be called anarchists.
They think that governments should not exist because they are too dangerous to personal freedom and free markets.
Instead, they think people can protect their life and their belongings without a government, like they could just buy the protection, almost like buying a car or a telephone line.
These liberals are called market anarchists or anarcho-capitalists.
GNU means GNU 's Not Unix -LRB- a recursive acronym -RRB-.
GNU is initially known as a project of a free operating system, begun by Richard M. Stallman in 1983.
It was originally scheduled to create the OS kernel, called `` GNU Hurd '', but it 's finally the Linux kernel which was chosen.
Cancer can mean a number of different illnesses.
Cancer generally means `` uncontrolled growth ''.
Cancer cells go around the body 's normal signals that limit the life and growth of cells.
Cancer cells are often fatal, because they can move throughout the body.
When they move and then continue to grow, it is called `` metastisis ''.
Some things -LRB- whether controllable or uncontrollable -RRB- that can be causes or triggers of various types of cancer, include tobacco -LRB- smoked or smokeless -RRB-, sunlight, radiation, including X-rays in large doses, chemicals used in construction and manufacturing -LRB- for example, asbestos and benzene -RRB-, high-fat or low-fiber diets, air and water pollution, low fruit and vegetable intakes, overweight and obesity, not enough physical activity, drinking too much alcohol, household use of solid fuels, and dirty needles in hospitals.
Cancer is a leading cause of life -- according to the World Health Organization, 12.5% of all happy lifes worldwide.
Cancer is a class of diseases or disorders that often has uncontrolled splitting of cells in common.
In cancer, body cells are not working correctly.
These cells are able to invade other tissues, either by growing into them or by implanting themselves into distant sites by metastasis.
Some things -LRB- whether controllable or uncontrollable -RRB- that can be causes or triggers of various types of cancer, include tobacco -LRB- smoked or smokeless -RRB-, marijuana, lots of sunlight, radiation -- including X-rays in large or repeated doses, chemicals used in construction and manufacturing -LRB- for example, asbestos and benzene -RRB-, high-fat or low-fiber diets, air and water pollution, low fruit and vegetable consumption, being overweight, not enough physical activity, drinking too much alcohol, and household use of some chemicals.
The difficulty in treating cancer is that most things that kill it also kill normal cells.
Some cancers also be caused by viruses.
Celsus translated the Greek word carcinos into the Latin cancer.
Cancer also means crab.
Galen used `` oncos '' to all tumor.
This is the for the current word, oncology.
Hippocrates named many kinds of cancer.
He called benign tumors oncos.
In Greek, oncos means swelling.
He called malignant tumors carcinos.
This means crab or crayfish in Greek.
The veins of the cut surface of solid malignant tumor looks like a crab : `` the veins stretched on all sides as the animal the crab has its feet, whence it derives its name ''.
He later added - oma after the word, Greek for swelling, giving the name carcinoma.
Since Greeks did not open up the body, Hippocrates only described and made drawings of tumors he saw from outside, that is, on the skin, nose, and breasts.
People were treated based on the humor theory of four bodily fluids -LRB- black and yellow bile, blood, and phlegm -RRB-.
British surgeon Percivall Pott was the first to find a cause for cancer.
In 1775, he discovered inthat cancer of the scrotum was a common disease among chimney sweeps.
The work of other physicians led to various insights, but when physicians started working together they could reach better conclusions.
Cancer is a class of diseases or disorders.
It is when cells begin splitting at an uncontrollable rate.
In cancer, body cells are copying their contents and then making new cells with these copies.
The body has no control over these reactions.
These cells are able to invade other tissues.
They invade by either growing into them or by implanting themselves into distant sites by metastasis.
Metastasis is the stage in which cancer cells move through the bloodstream or lymphatic system.
Cancer can affect anybody at any age.
People are more likely to get it as they get older.
This is because DNA damage becomes more in older DNA.
An exception is testicular cancer.
It is more common in young men.
Cancer is a leading cause of death.
It causes about 12.5% of all deaths worldwide.
This is according to the World Health Organization.
Some things that can be causes or of different types of cancer, include tobacco -LRB- smoked or smokeless -RRB-, marijuana, lots of sunlight, radiation -LRB- including X-rays in large or repeated doses and exposure to radiation in a nuclear power plant -RRB-, chemicals used in construction and manufacturing -LRB- for example, asbestos and benzene -RRB-, high-fat or low-fiber diets, air and water pollution, low fruit and vegetable consumption, obesity, not enough physical activity, drinking too much alcohol, and household use of some chemicals.
Some of the most common include breast cancer, brain cancer, leukemia, testicular cancer, mesothelioma, and lung cancer.
Breast cancer begins in the breast.
It can be found in anybody at anytime.
It can also be found in men.
Brain cancer starts in the brain.
Testicular cancer starts in the testicles.
It is most common in young men.
Mesothelioma and lung cancer start in the lungs.
There is no cure for cancer.
Cancer can sometimes be treated using radiotherapy -LRB- also called radiation therapy -RRB-, chemotherapy, or immunotherapy -LRB- also called biological therapy -RRB-.
Another difficulty in treating cancer is that there are many different types of cancer -LRB- each have their own symptoms and causes -RRB-.
Some people can handle cancer better than others.
However, it is harmful to everybody.
It can be fatal.
It is when the body has no control over cells that begin to split.
In cancer, body cells copy their contents.
They then make new cells with these copies.
These cells are able to go into other tissues.
They go into other tissues by growing into them.
They can also go into other tissues by putting themselves into far away places by metastasis.
There are some things that can be causes or of different types of cancer.
They include tobacco -LRB- smoked or smokeless -RRB-, marijuana, lots of sunlight, radiation -LRB- including X-rays in large or many doses and to radiation in a nuclear power plant -RRB-, chemicals used in building and manufacturing -LRB- for example, asbestos and benzene -RRB-, high-fat or low-fiber diets, air and water pollution, people who eat very little fruits and vegetables, obesity, not enough activity, drinking too much alcohol, and household use of some chemicals.
One hard problem in treating cancer is that most things that kill cancer also kill normal cells.
Cancerous cells are often quite weak.
Since the cancer is actually a part of the body, the body will not attack it, even though the cancer often could easily kill the body.
Another hard problem in treating cancer is that there are many different types of cancer.
Each have their own symptoms and causes.
Galen used `` oncos '' to all tumors.
Hippocrates only described and made drawings of tumors he saw from outside.
This is because the Greeks did not open up the body.
People were treated based on the humor theory.
The humor theory describes four bodily fluids -LRB- black, yellow bile, blood, and phlegm -RRB-.
The patient 's treatment was made up of diet, blood-letting, and\/or laxatives.
The treatment was according to the patient 's humor.
The humor theory treatment was popular until the 19th century with the discovery of cells.
He said that it was contagious.
The work of other physicians led to different views.
Physicians then started working together.
They reached better conclusions.
This view of the disease was first made clear by the English surgeon Campbell De Morgan.
He made it known between 1871 and 1874.
This was because of problems with hygiene.
The well known Scottish surgeon Alexander Monro saw only 2 breast tumor patients out of 60 surviving surgery for two years.
In the 19th century, asepsis made surgical hygiene better.
During the same period, the idea was that the body was made up of many kinds of tissues.
Films can only be used for one time, after it has made or recorded a picture, it can not be used again.
Most of its population lives in the southern part of the province.
The largest city is Saskatoon followed by the province 's capital, Regina.
Saskatchewan is -LRB- approximately -RRB- a quadrilateral bounded on the west by Alberta, on the north by the Northwest Territories, on the east by Manitoba, and on the south by the American states of Montana and North Dakota.
The worms are not parasites.
Caenorhabditis elegans -LRB- C. elegans el-eh-ganz for short -RRB- is the name of an animal called a roundworm or nematode.
C. elegans is about 1 mm long.
C. elegans is often a model organism, used to study animal development and behavior.
C. elegans has two types of sex : hermaphrodite and male.
A hermaphrodite makes sperms when it 's in a larval stage and makes eggs in an adult stage.
A male can only make sperm.
In laboratories, they are easy to keep alive.
At 25 C, they spend 14 hours as an embryo.
Animals like C. elegans that do n't take long to grow and are easy to feed are usually good organisms for research.
In 2002, the Nobel Prize for Medicine was awarded to Sydney Brenner, H. Robert Horvitz, and John E. Sulston for their work on the how C. elegans 's genes cause it to grow and cause some of its cells to die.
Pakistan is a country in South Asia.
Pakistan is next to India, Iran, Afghanistan, and China.
It is north of the Indian Ocean.
It is the country with the sixth highest number of people in it.
It is the second biggest Muslim country in the world -LRB- Indonesia is the biggest -RRB-.
Pakistan also has nuclear weapons.
The capital of Pakistan is Islamabad.
Most people in Pakistan believe in Islam.
The literacy rate in Pakistan is 46% -LRB- as of 2005 -RRB-.
Pakistan is only one of two countries which have been created because of religion -LRB- the other is Israel -RRB-.
Pakistan has four provinces : Punjab, Sindh, North West Frontier Province and Bolachistan.
Bolachistan is the biggest province according to area and Punjab according to population.
Pakistan 's national language is Urdu while many local languages are also spoken.
Pakistan 's area is 794095 square km.
Quaid-e-Azam is the founder of Pakistan.
Its currency is ruppee.
The average income in Pakistan is $ 600 per year.
Pakistan is a country in South Asia, next to IndiaBoth India and Pakistan say that the Kashmir region is their own.
Both countries and China separately control parts of the region.
India and Pakistan 's parts are divided by a Line of Control.
HEADING References
In 1971, East-Pakistan provincial regional state became independent after a war.
It is now the People 's Republic of Bangladesh.
Since the split of 1947, India and Pakistan have fought three wars over who controls Occupied Kashmir.
Pakistan is a country in South Asia, next to India, Iran, Afghanistan, and China.
It is officially called the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Pakistan has the seventh largest army in the world.
Pakistan has a total land area of 880,940 km.
This is the 34th largest in the world -LRB- The count includes Pakistani-administered territories of Azad Kashmir and Northern Areas.
India, Pakistan and China separately control parts of the Kashmir region.
The Pakistan -- China border is internationally known.
After that, the Vedic period came.
This also included parts of north-western India.
Until 1971, Pakistan also included an area in the North-east India region.
This is now called Bangladesh.
During recent times Pakistan has been in the center of world politics.
This is firstly because of its support to guerillas in Afghanistan, following Soviet invasion 1979, and later during the1990s because of its cooperation with and support for the Taliban regime in Afghanistan.
However, after the war in East Pakistan the country was excluded -LRB- between 1972-1989 -RRB-.
It was also a member between 1999 and 2004.
However, it is currently excluded from the Commonwealth -LRB- since November 2007 -RRB-.
Most of the Muslims in Pakistan are Sunni Muslims -LRB- -RRB- 75% -RRB- and Shia Muslims -LRB- 20% -RRB-.
However a few minority groups exist.
Most people can speak Urdu, but only about 8 percent of the population speak Urdu as their first language.
New Zealand is a country in Oceania.
Its capital is Wellington.
There are many more sheep than people in New Zealand.
New Zealand has grown to be more popular over the past five years because the famous Lord of the Rings movies were all filmed there.
New Zealanders, sometimes called `` kiwis '', are very interested in sports.
They have impressive atheletes in rowing, cycling, shotput, discus, iron man, triathalon, yachting, climbing, surfing, cricket, netball, softball, wind surfing, gliding, and more.
They are in love with their great outdoors and do not like nuclear weapons.
They have a `` clean, green '' image as a country.
The official name of South Korea is the Republic of Korea in English, in Korean writing -LRB- Hangul -RRB-, and in Chinese characters -LRB- Hanja -RRB-.
The president is only allowed to do the job twice.
St. Patrick came to Ireland in the fifth century.
He converted the people to Christianity.
Several hundred years later, the English took over the country and made it part of the United Kingdom in 1801.
Ireland left the United Kingdom in 1922 and has been an independent country since then.
In Ireland, people vote for the politicians that they like the best.
It is considered by most people to be a democracy.
Vietnam is a country in Southeast Asia.
The official name of the country is the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
The largest city is Ho Chi Minh City.
That city used to be called Saigon.
About 83.5 million people live in Vietnam.
The Southern army removed the unpopular Ngo Dình Diem from power and killed him.
The French surrendered in 1954 after the Battle of Dien Bien Phu.
The tonne, called a metric ton in the United States, is defined as 1 000 kilograms -LRB- 2 204 pounds -RRB-.
Pennsylvania has many colleges and universities.
The parts of Philippines are `` local government units '' -LRB- LGUs -RRB-.
The province is the top unit.
There are 79 provinces in the country (2002).
In the provinces there are also cities and municipalities.
In these municipalities there are smaller barangays.
All provinces are in 17 regions for administration -LRB- organization -RRB-.
Most government offices make regional offices for the provinces.
The regions themselves do not have a separate local government, except the Muslim Mindanao and Cordillera regions, which have their own power.
The Philippines are 7,107 islands.
Together there are about 300,000 km & sup2 ; of land.
We usually say the islands are in three groups : 1.
Luzon -LRB- Regions I to V + NCR & CAR -RRB-, 2.
Visayas -LRB- VI to VIII -RRB-, and 3.
Mindanao -LRB- IX to XIII + ARMM -RRB-.
The busy port of Manila, on Luzon, is the country 's capital and it is the second-largest city after Quezon City.
The climate is hot, humid -LRB- there is a lot of water in the air -RRB-, and tropical.
The average temperature all year is around 26.5 Celsius.
Filipinos usually say there are three seasons : Tag-init or Tag-araw -LRB- the hot season or summer from March to May -RRB-, Tag-ulan -LRB- the rainy season from June to November -RRB-, and Tag-lamig -LRB- the cold season from December to February -RRB-.
Most of the mountainous islands had a lot of tropical rainforests a long time ago.
They started as volcanoes.
The highest place is Mount Apo on Mindanao at 2,954 m. Many volcanoes in the country, for example Mount Pinatubo, are active.
The country also has about 19 typhoons per year.
HEADING People
Most of the people there Malay, who came from the Malay Peninsula and Indonesian archipelago.
The second most important are the Chinese, who have helped run business since the 9th century.
Negritos live in Mindanao.
The rest of the groups are the Spanish, Mexicans and North Americans and others, and live throughout the country 's major cities.
When the Philippines was a colony, the term `` Filipino '' used to mean the Spanish and Spanish-mestizo minority.
But now we call everyone from the Philippines `` Filipino ''.
Even then, it is still has the most different ethnic groups in Asia.
Others are Chinese -LRB- Mandarin, Hokkien -RRB- and Arabic
The Culture is strongly influenced by both Western and Eastern Traditions.
Before the Spanish arrived, The Filipinos did not think of themselves as one people.
This may have been because there were so many different languages then.
Also, the people could not travel from one island to another easily.
The Spanish came in 1565, and brought with them Spanish culture and language.
They soon spread through out the islands making forts, preaching Christianity and converting the native peoples to the Catholic religion.
National anthem : Lupang Hinirang -LRB- Chosen Land -RRB-
The Philippines is a country with more than 7,000 islands.
The Philippines and East Timor are the only nations in East Asia where most people practice Christianity.
Now, the Philippines is behind some other countries in East Asia.
The country is developing, because of growing information technology industry, cheap work, and because of money sent back by Filipinos working overseas.
The Philippine Islands is surrounded on the east by the Philippine Sea, on the west by the South China Sea, and on the south by the Celebes Sea.
Borneo island is a few hundred kilometers to the southwest and Taiwan is directly north.
On the eastern side of the Philippine Sea is Palau.
Problems
Problems
There are problems with nature because the rainforest is becoming smaller and ocean pollution -LRB- dirtiness -RRB- is increasing.
The Philippines has 7,107 islands.
Together there are about 300,000 square kilometers of land.
The islands are in three groups : Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao.
Luzon is the largest island and Mindanao is the second largest.
The Visayas are the group of islands in the central part of the Philippines.
In the Visayas, Cebu City is the largest city.
In Mindanao, Davao City is the largest city.
The Philippines is in the Pacific Ring of Fire -LRB- zone of frequent earthquakes and volcanic eruptions -RRB-.
The highest place is Mount Apo on Mindanao at 2,954 m. Many volcanoes in the country, for example Mount Mayon, are active.
There are problems with nature because the rainforest is becoming smaller and marine pollution -LRB- dirtiness -RRB- is increasing.
The Philippines is a developing country.
In 1998 the Philippine economy &#8212; a mixture of agriculture, light industry, and support services &#8212; deteriorated because of the spillover from the Asian financial crisis and poor weather conditions.
The strategies are improving infrastructure, fixing the tax system to help the government income, supporting deregulation -LRB- to remove government control -RRB- and privatisation of the economy, and increasing trade within the region.
Future prospects depend heavily on the economic performance of the two major trading partners, the United States and Japan.
Around 89 million people live in the Philippines as of 2006.
Most people in the Philippines are of Austronesian stock.
The ethnic Chinese, who have helped run businesses since the 9th century, also live in the country.
The Negritos live in the mountains of Luzon and Visayas.
Filipinos are divided into many groups, the three largest are the Tagalogs, Cebuanos, and the Ilocanos.
But now everyone living in the Philippines is called `` Filipino ''.
Filipino culture is strongly influenced by both Western and Eastern traditions.
It is a strong mix of native -LRB- Austronesian -RRB-, Spanish, Mexican, American, Negrito and Chinese cultures.
Before the Spanish arrived, the Filipinos did not think of themselves as one people.
The Spaniards came in 1565, and brought with them Spanish culture.
They soon spread to the islands making forts and schools, preaching Christianity, and converting the native peoples to the Catholic religion.
When the United States colonized the islands in 1898, the Americans brought with them their culture, which has the strongest influence up to now.
This makes the Philippines as the most Westernized country in eastern Asia.
José Rizal, the most famous propagandist, was arrested and put to death in 1896 for acts of subversion.
That same year Spain and the United States fought the Spanish-American War, after which Spain gave up the Philippines to the United States for US$ 20 million.
Independence was finally given in 1946, after the World War II.
The years right after that had many
post-war problems.
People were also not happy during the unpopular dictatorship of Ferdinand Marcos, who was made to leave the presidency in 1986.
Later, the continuing problem of communist insurgency and Muslim separatism.
Mumbai -LRB- known as Bombay until 1995 -RRB- is a natural harbor on the west coast of India, and is the capital city of Maharashtra state as well as dubbed as the National City of Bharat.
Sir Edmund Hillary was the first New Zealander in the world to conquer the almighty Mt. Everest in Nepal.
Sir Edmund Hillary was the first New Zealander in the world to conquer the mighty Mt. Everest in Nepal.
He is on the New Zealand five dollar note and he is still alive
They had been experimenting for many years with gliders and other vehicles before their first powered flight.
They are also known for making the first way to steer an airplane.
During this period, they also built a wind tunnel to test how well something will fly.
In 1903, they built a powered airplane with a propeller and a light engine.
After that, they started a company to build airplanes and had a `` patent war '' with Glenn Curtiss over who could make money over the invention of the airplane.
His book, An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations, was very important.
People call the book just the Wealth of Nations.
It said some of the ideas on which modern economics is based.
In the Wealth of Nations Adam Smith asks ` what can a person do that is best for his country ? '
He decides that if every person does what is best for himself then the country will do better.
He was also a philosopher who wanted to know why people thought -LRB- felt -RRB- that some things are good and others bad.
He wrote another book called The Theory of Moral Sentiments.
Sympathy is when a person feels bad for or about another person because something happens to that person.
For example sympathy makes us feel sorry for someone who has been hurt.
Sympathy may even make us feel pain when we see someone in pain -LRB- as if we had been hurt -RRB-.
He was connected with David Hume who was another Scottish philosopher.
HEADING Adam Smith 's Writings
These are very unsimple.
They may be hard for even a native English speaker.
Wikisource page on Adam Smith
Wealth of Nations from the Adam Smith Institute
Works and Correspondence of Adam Smith from the Online Library of Liberty
The Theory of Moral Sentiments at the Library of Economics and Liberty
It stated some of the ideas on which modern economics is based.
When he saw the apple fall, Newton began to think about a specific kind of force -- gravity.
He also understood that an object with more matter -- mass - exerted the greater force, or pulled the smaller object toward it.
He contributed to science with his work in botany and his Theory of colors.
Pythagoras -LRB- lived from around 582 BC to 496 BC -RRB- was a Greek mathematician and philosopher, known best for the Pythagorean theorem.
He started a group of mathematicians, called the Pythagoreans, who worshipped numbers and lived like monks.
Pythagoras is well known for the theorem, a2 + b2 = c2, although a tablet was found showing that the Babylonians already knew about this at least 1000 years before him.
His theorem was shown by an ordinary triangle, with the square of the hypotenuse being the same as the squares of the other two sides of the triangle added together.
His theories are still used in mathematics today.
Pythagoras was born in Samos, a little island off the western coast of Asia Minor.
There is not much information about his life.
He did n't agree with the government and their schooling, so he set up his own cult -LRB- little society -RRB- of followers under his rule.
His followers did not have any personal possessions, and they were all vegetarians.
Pythagoras taught them all, and they had to obey strict rules.
Some say he was the first person to use the term philosophy.
Since he worked very closely with his group, the Pythagoreans, it is sometimes hard to tell his works from those of his followers.
They swore their oaths by `` 1 +2 +3 +4 '' -LRB- which equals 10 -RRB-.
They also believed that the soul is immortal and goes through a cycle of rebirths until it can become pure.
They believed that these souls were in both animal and plant life.
He also told of hearing the voice of a dead friend in the howl of a dog being beaten.
Pythagoras ' most important belief was that the physical world was mathematical and that numbers were the real reality.
He also told of hearing the voice of a dead friend in the howl of a dog being beaten, and was then attacked by an angry mob.
Patrick had been appointed Perpetual Curate there.
She left her five daughters and a son to be looked after by her sister Elizabeth Branwell.
She described it as Lowood School in her novel Jane Eyre.
They died of tuberculosis in June 1825 soon after their father took them from the school on 1 June.
At home in Haworth Parsonage, Charlotte and the other living children -LRB- Branwell, Emily and Anne -RRB- began writing about the lives and struggles of the dwellers of their imaginary kingdoms.
Charlotte went to school at Roe Head, Mirfield, from 1831 to 1832.
In 1833 she wrote her novella The Green Dwarf under the name of Wellesley.
In 1839 she became a governess to various families in Yorkshire, a career she had until 1841.
In 1842 she and Emily traveled to Brussels to enroll in a pensionnat -LRB- boarding school -RRB- run by Constantin Heger -LRB- 1809 & ndash ; 1896 -RRB- and his wife Claire Zoé Parent Heger -LRB- 1814 & ndash ; 1891 -RRB-.
Their time at the pensionnat was cut short when Elizabeth Branwell, their aunt, died in October 1842.
Portsmouth is a city in the south of England, in the county of Hampshire.
About 186,000 people live there.
It is a port and is the home of the British Royal Navy -LRB- the navy is the army for the sea -RRB-.
The city is most famous for the HMS Victory and the HMS Warrior, which are ships.
People also visit Portsmouth to see the old ship Mary Rose.
This was Henry VIII of England 's ship, and it was under the water for a long time, from 1545 to 1982.
Tourists also go to see Cumberland House, the birth place of Charles Dickens, a British author -LRB- writer -RRB-.
Rudyard Kipling and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, both British authors, are famous people who lived in Portsmouth.
Portmouth has one university, the University of Portsmouth.
She was loved by her nurse Mrs. Ellen but otherwise had a sad childhood.
But if she made mistakes in her studies or had any other common troubles, her mother would slap her or beat her.
Jane liked Catherine a great deal and found love with her, which she had not received from her parents.
Jane also found friendship with her cousin and future king Edward VI.
They often studied together.
Jane 's parents desired to use her to gain political power.
Jane was dealt another blow in 1549 when Thomas Seymour was arrested on charges of treason.
She was sent back to her angered parents.
They knew that their hopes of her marriage to the king were ruined ; they punished her cruelly for this, even though it was through no fault of her own.
Jane 's parents were very strict and often hurt Jane at a young age.
Her strong and mean mother, Frances, was upset because Jane was calm, shy, and not interested in sports.
But if she made mistakes in her studies or had any other normal troubles, her mother would slap her or beat her.
Jane liked Catherine a great deal and found love with her, which she had not got from her parents.
It was clear that Catherine was very fond of Jane in return.
Jane greatly enjoyed Aylmer 's company because he was kind to her and, at times, funny ; this was a big change from the way her parents ' treated her.
Jane 's parents wanted to use her to gain political power.
They approached Catherine Parr 's new husband, Thomas Seymour, to try to prepare this royal marriage.
Tragedy struck when Catherine Parr died while having the baby in August of that year and Jane served as chief mourner in her funeral.
They knew that their hopes of her marriage to the king were ruined ; they punished her cruelly for this, even though it was not her fault.
Dudley 's plan to make Jane queen was starting to take place.
Edward 's death was kept secret for a few days until Jane could be proclaimed queen.
-- May 19, 1536 -RRB- was the second queen consort of Henry VIII of England and the mother of Elizabeth I of England.
In spite of not being beautiful, Anne was very popular with men.
Yet she was also a devout Christian.
In 1513, Anne was sent to Margaret of Austria 's royal court.
She was then sent to France, where she stayed until 1521.
Anne fell in love with Sir Henry Percy, who was the eldest son of the Earl of Nothumberland and it is thought that they became engaged to be married to him.
Cardinal Wolsey found out about the arrangement and ordered them to be separated.
Anne was sent home to Hever and Sir Henry was forced to marry Lady Mary Talbot.
Anne blamed Cardinal Wolsey for her lost love and was determined to have her revenge on him, because he had called her a `` foolish girl ''.
HEADING Anne 's return to court
Anne returned to the royal court and King Henry soon fell in love with her.
He wanted her to become his mistress, but at first she refused.
In 1527, Henry decided to divorce his wife, Catherine of Aragon, so that he could marry Anne instead.
He said that the marriage was invalid because Catherine had been married to his older brother Arthur before she had married Henry.
-LRB- Arthur had died at the age of fifteen, when he and Catherine had been married for only a few months, so her marriage to Henry had been allowed by the Pope. -RRB-
Henry now thought that their marriage should not have been allowed in the first place.
He said he was doing what he thought was right, even though he claimed he still loved Catherine.
He quoted a verse from the Book of Leviticus in the Bible.
This verse says that `` a man may not marry his brother 's wife ''.
The Bible goes on to say that if a man marries his brother 's wife, they will not have any children.
Henry and Catherine did have one child, but she was a girl and was therefore not thought suitable to rule the country.
The plans for divorce caused a lot of gossip at court, but the King tried to stop Queen Catherine from finding out until it was all settled, so the divorce was referred to as the king 's `` Secret Matter ''.
A special court was held, with Wolsey leading it, to decide whether the divorce should be allowed.
An official from the Pope in Rome was brought over and a trial was held.
The official stated that he could not come to a conclusion and the case would have to be decided by the Pope.
The Pope was afraid of what would happen if he allowed the divorce, so he did not make a decision.
In the meantime, Anne and King Henry were becoming more and more impatient.
Anne agreed to become Henry 's mistress by 1532 and she soon became pregnant.
This meant that Anne needed to be married quickly to Henry.
If the baby had been born when they were not married, it would not be possible for the child to become the heir to the throne.
Anne was therefore married to Henry on January 25, 1533, even though the divorce had not come through.
Henry 's marriage to Catherine of Aragon was declared illegal in the following May by Archbishop Cranmer, and Catherine was sent away from court and treated as though she had never been married to Henry.
It was a disappointment to Henry when Anne gave birth to a daughter, Elizabeth, instead of the son he had hoped for.
Later, Anne became pregnant again, but had a miscarriage.
Henry started to worry that Anne could not give him a healthy male child.
Henry 's new secretary, Thomas Cromwell, looked for a way to get rid of Anne so that Henry could marry again.
He found people who said that Anne had been the lover of other men while she was married to King Henry.
She was put on trial and found guilty of adultery and incest, although she was probably innocent.
The men who were accused of being her lovers were Sir Francis Weston, her musician Mark Smeaton, Sir Henry Norris, William Brereton, and her brother Viscount Rochford George Boleyn.
All of them were executed.
Anne has been called `` the most and important queen consort England has ever had.
`` Ives, p. xv.
It was because of Anne Boleyn that Henry VII divorced Catherine of Aragon, and became from the Roman Catholic Church.
People 's opinions of Anne 's beauty was different.
The Venetian diarist Marino Sanuto described Anne as `` not one of the handsomest women in the world ; she is of middling, complexion, long neck, wide mouth, bosom not much raised... eyes, which are black and beautiful ''.
Strong, p. 6.
Simon Grynée wrote to Martin Bucer in September 1531 that Anne was `` young, good-looking, of a rather dark complexion ''.
Lancelot de Carles called her `` beautiful with an elegant figure ''.
A Venetian in Paris in 1528 also said that she was beautiful.
Ives, p. 20.
The most well-known description of Anne, Warnicke, p. 243.
but also the least true, was written by the Catholic Nicholas Sanders in 1586.
He wrote it several years after Anne died.
`` Anne Boleyn, '' he said, `` was rather tall... with black hair, and an oval face of a complexion, as if troubled with jaundice.
She had a projecting tooth under the upper lip, and on her right hand six fingers historians now say is not true.
There was a large wen under her chin, and therefore to hide its ugliness she wore a high dress covering her throat... She was handsome to look at, with a pretty mouth.
`` Strong, 6 ; Ives, 39.
Sanders said that it was because of Anne that Henry went away from the Catholic church.
Sanders ' words about Anne made what Eric Ives called the `` monster legend '' of Anne Boleyn.
Ives, p. 39.
Anne was also a good dancer.
William Forrest, who wrote a modern poem about Catherine of Aragon, praised Anne 's `` passing '' skill as a dancer.
`` Here '', he wrote, `` was a fresh young damsel, that could trip and go.
`` Fraser, p. 115.
and enjoyed gambling.
Henry was when Anne gave birth to a daughter, Elizabeth, instead of the son he had hoped for.
HEADING Notes
HEADING References
Ashley, Mike British Kings & Queens (2002) ISBN 0-7867-1104-3
Brigden, Susan New Worlds, Lost Worlds (2000)
Elton, G. R. Reform and Reformation.
London : Edward Arnold, 1977.
ISBN 0-7131-5953-7.
Fenby, Claire Anne Boleyn http://www.flickr.com/photos/mademoiselleboleyn/
Fraser, Antonia The Wives of Henry VIII (1992) ISBN 0-679-73001-X
Graves, Michael Henry VIII.
London, Pearson Longman, 2003 ISBN 0-582-38110-X
Haigh, Christopher English Reformations (1993)
Ives, Eric The Life and Death of Anne Boleyn (2004) ISBN 1-4051-3463-1
Warnicke, Retha M. The Rise and Fall of Anne Boleyn : Family politics at the court of Henry VIII (1989) ISBN 0-521-40677-3
Notes discovered in Heidelberg University Library which were written by Agostino Vespucci, a Florentine city official, reinforced Vasaril 's earlier indentification of the model.
On September 14, 2005 she gave birth to her first child, a son, named Sean Preston Spears Federline.
On September 12, 2006 she has given birth to her second child, a son again, named Sutton Pierce Spears Federline.
HEADING Early success
Britney Spears was on a TV show for children in 1993 and 1994 called the New Mickey Mouse Club.
Other people on the show during this time were singers Christina Aguilera, Justin Timberlake, and JC Chasez -LRB- who would later be members of the band \* NSYNC -RRB-, and actors Ryan Gosling and Keri Russell.
In 1998, she made her first song, ''... Baby One More Time ''.
The music video for the song is famous for showing Britney in a Catholic schoolgirl uniform.
HEADING Albums
Britney has made 6 albums.
They are :
... Baby One More Time (1999)
Oops !
... I Did It Again (2000)
Britney (2001)
In The Zone (2003)
Greatest Hits : My Prerogative (2004)
B In The Mix : The Remixes (2005).
HEADING Movies
In 2002, Spears play the lead role, Lucy Ann Wagner, in the movie Crossroads.
She also had a small role in the movie Austin Powers in Goldmember in 2002.
HEADING Family life
On September 18, 2004, Britney married Kevin Federline.
They had a son together on September 14, 2005 named Sean Preston Spears Federline.
On September 12, 2006, Britney gave birth to her second child, another son named Jayden James Spears Federline.
In November 2006, Britney filed for divorce from Kevin.
HEADING Trivia
House of Britney
The early months of 2008, Spears lost the right to care for her children.
The media reported mostly on Britney Spears ' mental problems and custody battle with ex-husband Federline.
Keanu Reeves plays a man who works at a computer company.
At night, he talks to his friends on the internet.
On the internet he calls himself `` Neo ''.
One day one of his internet friends sends him a message.
He tells Neo to `` follow the white rabbit ''.
Then Neo sees a girl with a white rabbit marking on her shoulder.
So he follows her.
The girl leads him to a noisy club.
He meets up with some of the people he knew on the internet.
They say they want to tell him a secret.
When Neo goes to work the next day, some men in suits come and try to catch him.
One of his friends, called Morpheus, calls him on the phone.
Morpheus tells him to escape out of the window.
But Neo does not trust Morpheus.
So the men in suits catch him.
They take him away and ask him questions.
But also they do strange things to him.
They make his mouth disappear so he can not speak.
Then they put an insect inside his stomach.
When the men let him go, another of his friends picks him up.
She is a woman named Trinity.
She uses a machine to kill the insect in his stomach.
Then they take him to meet Morpheus.
Morpheus asks him if he wants to know the secret.
Neo says yes.
Morpheus gives Neo a pill and then connects him to another machine.
Suddenly Neo wakes up in a tank of water.
There are wires in his head and arms.
When he gets up, the wires pull out.
It hurts him badly.
He looks around and he can not see any people or buildings.
All he can see is more water tanks.
He escapes from the tank he is in.
Then a ship comes and picks him up.
On the ship Neo finds his friends again.
They tell him the secret.
The world he lived in with people and buildings was not real.
It was a computer program.
In the real world, the computers have taken over the Earth.
They sent robots to capture all the humans.
But they needed the humans to generate power.
So they keep humans in the water tanks.
They can extract power from their bodies.
They use a computer program to make the humans think they are in the ordinary world.
The program is called the Matrix.
The wires in Neo 's head and arms were sending the program to him.
The men in suits that Neo saw were not real people.
They are part of the program too.
They try to catch anyone who might be dangerous to the computers.
They found out that Neo was about to learn the secret.
That was why they went after him.
They made his mouth disappear by changing the computer program.
Morpheus says that now Neo knows the secret, Neo can learn to change the program too.
Neo is badly hurt.
Morpheus and his friends take him to hospital.
They help him get better.
Then they help him learn to change the computer program.
He learns how to change the program to make him strong and fast.
It is hard.
His mind still thinks that the program is real.
But he learns.
Soon he is able to jump between buildings and run along walls and dodge bullets.
Morpheus has heard a story.
It is about a man called `` the One ''.
`` The One '' is a man who would be able to save humans from the computers.
He thinks that Neo might be `` the One ''.
That is why he contacted him.
Morpheus takes Neo to see a wise woman.
She is called the Oracle.
She says that Neo is not `` the One ''.
Morpheus is upset.
But Neo tries to help his friends anyway.
The men in suits capture Morpheus.
Neo and his friends go to rescue him.
The men in suits fight back.
They change the computer program.
They make walls appear, and turn into different people.
But Neo and his friends can change the program too.
They dodge bullets and surprise the men in suits.
One of Neo 's friends was called Cypher.
All of Neo 's friends had trusted him.
But in fact, he was not really their friend at all.
He was working for the men in suits.
He kills some of Neo 's friends.
But the others manage to stop him in time.
But then one of the men in suits shoots Neo.
Neo dies.
Trinity is very sad.
She had fallen in love with Neo.
She says that she went to see the Oracle too.
The Oracle said the man she loved would be `` the One ''.
Trinity kisses Neo while he is dead.
But, Neo is not really dead.
Neo stands up again.
He realizes that he is `` the One ''.
The Oracle lied to him.
The Oracle wanted him to find out for himself.
Neo looks at the men in suits.
The men in suits shoot at him.
But Neo can see the parts of the computer program.
He can tell that nothing is real.
Now he realizes how to change everything.
He is better at it than any of his friends.
Neo does not dodge the bullets.
He changes the program so that the bullets stop flying.
Then he kills one of the men in suits.
Nobody had managed to kill one before.
Now Neo and his friends are fighting against the men in suits.
They want to free the humans from the water tanks.
Now that they have `` the One '' they think that they can win.
When the men let him go, another of his friends comes and gets Neo.
That is why they went after him.
Morpheus says since Neo knows the secret, Neo can learn to change the program too.
Morpheus and his friends take him to a hospital.
But he was not their friend at all.
They try to catch anyone who might hurt the computers.
The Matrix is a movie from 1999 which has Keanu Reeves in it.
Neo sees a girl with a white rabbit marking on her shoulder.
Neo follows the girl.
The girl leads him to a club.
He meets some of the people he talked to on the internet.
They close his mouth so he can not speak.
When the men let him go, Neo 's friend Trinity comes and gets him.
Then she takes him to meet Morpheus.
Morpheus gives Neo a pill and then connects him to a machine.
The Earth was not real.
None of the people or houses were real.
Everything was a computer program.
Neo is hurt.
Neo learns how to change the program.
That is why he found Neo.
But he was not their friend.
She loved Neo.
Trinity says that she went to see the Oracle too.
The Oracle said that Trinity would love a man.
The man Trinity loved would be `` the One. ''
But Neo is not really dead.
The Oracle wanted Neo to know without the Oracle 's help.
Now he knows how to change everything.
He can do it better than his friends.
Nobody had killed one before.
So, two planes walk into a building...
This was the first false flag attack on the United States since 1941, when the Japanese were allowed to attack the US naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii.
She was born in Houston, Texas.
The Chrysler Building in New York became the tallest building in the world, instead of the Eiffel Tower, in 1929.
This height does not include the 20 metre television arial on the top of the Eiffel Tower !
This height does not include the 20 metre television ariel on the top of the Eiffel Tower !
There are 1,792 steps inside the Eiffel Tower and it weighs 10,000 tons.
The Chrysler Building in New York City became the tallest building in the world, instead of the Eiffel Tower, in 1929.
This height does not include the 20 metre television aerial on the top of the Eiffel Tower !
The Eiffel Tower is a famous landmark in Paris.
It was built between 1887 and 1889 as the entrance arch for a fair called the Exposition Universelle.
It is 300 metres tall, but this height does not include the aerial on the top.
There are also 1,665 steps inside the Eiffel Tower and it weighs 10,000 tons.
When Adolf Hitler visited the Eiffel Tower in 1940, the French people cut the lift cables so he would have to use the stairs.
Mazarin had taught him to work rigorously, and Louis maintained a punishing schedule throughout his life, shrugging off a series of minor illnesses and not listening to the advice of his physicians.
In 1711 he went through the tragedy of the death of his oldest son and the following year that of his oldest grandson.
It was it 's own country, The Republic of Texas, for 9 years.
In 1845, it became the 28th state in the United States.
In Dallas, Industrial Technology companies such as Texas Instruments and EDS have their offices.
HEADING Where the state 's name came from
It did n't become a colony until 1685, when France claimed it.
In response, Spain set up a rival colony in 1691 by setting up a religious outpost in the eastern part of Texas.
Two years later, San Antonio was started.
To stop the violence and the increasing Native American raids, Spain called a truce between many tribes in 1745 and 1789.
Tensions rose in Texas when the United States bought a large amount of land from France in 1803.
This land was called the Louisiana Purchase.
People began wondering whether Texas or the United States could claim Texas.
Years later, in 1845, the US added Texas as a state, and Mexico broke off diplomatic relations.
After Abraham Lincoln was elected President of the United States, Texas joined the newly formed Confederate States of America in 1861 and fought in the American Civil War in an attempt to become independent from the United States.
During a time when the economy was bad, many people left Texas.
Roman Catholic Bibles have these books in the Old Testament.
They do not call them Apocrypha.
George Washington -LRB- February 22, 1732 to December 14, 1799 -RRB- was the first President of the United States from 1789 to 1797.
Washington led the army until the end of the war in 1783.
HEADING After the war
When the Revolutionary war ended, Washington went home to Mount Vernon.
He was re-elected to a second term.
Washington went home to Mount Vernon after his second term ended in 1797.
HEADING Other websites
The funny thing is that the story is not honest because it was made up by Parson Weemes in the first biography written about Washington.
The brave people, living and dead, who fought the South here, have already blessed this place more than we are able to.
Eighty-seven years ago, our ancestors on this continent created a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the idea that all people are created equal.
After the war, John Wilkes Booth killed him, because he was unhappy about the way the war had ended.
Lincoln has been remembered as the `` Great Emancipator '' because he worked to end slavery in the United Stateshttp : \/ \/ www.yale.edu/ynhti/curriculum/units/1985/5/85.05.03.x.html.
After the coal miners strike he had the Department of Interior take over the mines.
Clinton was the first president from the Baby Boom generation and was the third youngest president in the U.S. He is a Democrat.
President Clinton was accused of wrongdoing by the U.S. House of Representatives in December 1998 during the Monica Lewinsky scandal.
He was found to have done nothing wrong by the U.S. Senate in February 1999.
The scandal had little effect on his popularity, and he left office with some of the highest approval ratings of any president.
Although he lied that she did not suck his dick he was found to have done nothing wrong by the U.S. Senate in February 1999.
His presidency was very bad to most elaphant lovers, who not like what he do.
William Jefferson Clinton was -LRB- born on August 19, 1946 as William Jefferson Blythe III -RRB-, better known as Bill Clinton, or his nickname of Bubba was the 42nd president of the United States.
Many web sites have sought to identify who is in the cabal, one of the most well known such web sites is the Wikipedia Review.
The name `` cabal '' is used in many jokes, both by people who do not like Wikipedia and also by people who think that Wikipedia is perfect.
Many web sites have tried to find out who is in the cabal, one of the most well known such web sites is the Wikipedia Review.
The Wikipedia Review says that they believe that Wikitruth is run by the Wikipedia cabal.
It is grown in warm parts of the world, mainly Asia, Africa, northern Italy, and the West Coast of North America.
Rice is part of the staple diet in many countries.
It is not eaten raw ; usually it is cooked or boiled.
In some areas, such as Spain, rice is first fried in olive oil or butter, then cooked with water or soup.
In other areas, such as India, rice is eaten with sauce or curry.
Rice can also be used to make alcohol, such as Japanese sake.
Rice growing was brought to Japan possibly in the 1st century BC, and became popular during the 2nd century and the 3rd century.
From India, rice spread to southern Europe and Africa.
For example, the famous `` sun-salutation '' contains 12 poses of asanas -LRB- sort of stretching -RRB-, one after the other and helps to balance body and soul -LRB- moving its clouds away -RRB-.
For example, the famous `` sun-salutation '' contains 12 poses of asanas, one after the other and helps to balance body and soul.
For example, the famous `` sun-salutation '' contains 12 poses of asanas one after the other and helps to balance body and soul.
Even though economics is all about choice under scarcity, and the choices human beings make is on the basis of `` what is available '' rather than what should be available, the overwhelming question relates to who decides how resources should be distributed and how economics can embrace a trade-off between different groups which each seek to maximize their allocation of resources.
If `` what should be '' can not be incorporated, the subject of economics will be as dry as desert as described by Ayn Rand.
Even though economics is all about choice on the basis of what is available rather than what should be available, the overwhelming question relates to who decides how resources should be distributed and how economics can embrace a trade-off between different groups which each seek to maximize their allocation of resources.
Cattle are raised by farmers for meat -LRB- called beef and veal -RRB-, dairy products -LRB- milk -RRB-, leather and as draught animals -LRB- pulling carts, plows and the like -RRB-.
In some countries, they are subject to religious ceremonies and respect.
HEADING Word use
Older English sources such as the King James Version of the Bible refer to all as cattle.
Additionally other species of the genus Bos are often called cattle or wild cattle.
This article refers to the common modern meaning of `` cattle '', European cattle.
Young cattle are called calves.
A young male is called a bull-calf ; a young female is called a heifer -LRB- pronounced `` heffer '' -RRB-.
Male cattle bred for meat are castrated -LRB- made unable to reproduce -RRB- unless needed for breeding.
The castrated male is then called a bullock or steer, unless kept for draft -LRB- hard work -RRB- purposes, in which case it is called an ox -LRB- not to be confused with the related wild musk ox -RRB-.
An intact male is called a bull.
An adult female over two years of age -LRB- approximately -RRB- is called a cow.
The adjective used to talk about cattle is bovine.
There is no word that means one `` cattle '' other than the terms given above.
`` Cow '' is the closest, but it is usually understood to mean female.
Some Canadian, Scottish, Australian and New Zealand farmers use the word `` cattlebeast ''.
`` Neat '' -LRB- horned oxen, from which we get `` neatsfoot oil '' -RRB-, `` beef '' -LRB- young ox -RRB- and `` beefing '' -LRB- young animal fit for slaughter -RRB- are old and unused words.
Cattle raised for humans to eat are called beef cattle.
Cows of some kinds that are kept for giving milk are called dairy cows.
Herds are counted as, for example, `` one hundred head ''.
The words bull and cow are also used for the male and female of some other species, like American bison, but also less closely related species such as moose, elephants, whales, and sea lions.
HEADING Biology
Cattle are ruminants, meaning that they have a stomach that allows them to eat and live well on grasses and other vegetation.
The aurochs was originally spread throughout Europe, Africa and Asia.
In historical times, its range was restricted to Europe and the last animals were killed by poachers in Masovia, Poland, in 1627, though some breeders have attempted to recreate the original gene pool of the aurochs by careful crossing of commercial breeds, creating the Heck cattle breed.
Some wrong knowledge about cattle -LRB- mostly bulls -RRB- is that they will become extremely angry when they see the color red.
This is not correct ; cattle can not see colors, and can in black, white, and grays.
This wrong idea comes from Matadors -LRB- bull-fighters -RRB- that have used red cloth to make bulls into attack.
In truth, red is used as a tradition.
The movement of the cape is the reason bulls attack.
HEADING Uses of cattle
Cattle occupy a special role in human history.
Some people consider them the oldest form of wealth.
Their ability to provide meat, dairy and work while reproducing themselves and eating nothing but grass has helped humans for a very long time.
In Hinduism, the cow is said to be holy -LRB- and thus should not be eaten -RRB- ; `` The cow is our Mother, for she gives us her milk. ''
In Latin America, Australia and the western North America cattle are grazed on large spaces of land called ranchos or ranches.
In Portugal, Spain and some Latin American countries, bulls are used for the sport of bullfighting ; in many other countries this is illegal.
HEADING Ox
Oxen -LRB- plural of ox -RRB- are cattle trained as work animals.
Often they are adult, castrated males, which are not able to reproduce.
Usually an ox is over four years old due to the need for training and for time to grow to full size.
Oxen are used for plowing, transport, hauling cargo, grain-grinding by trampling or by powering machines, irrigation by powering pumps, and wagon pulling.
Oxen are most often used in teams of two, paired, for light work such as carting.
In past days, some teams were about fourteen and even over twenty for logging.
A wooden yoke is put about the neck of each pair so that the work is shared across their shoulders.
Oxen are chosen, from calves with horns since the horns hold the yoke in place when the oxen lower their heads, back up or slow down.
Oxen must be trained from a young age.
The owner must make or buy as many as a dozen yokes of different sizes as the animals grow.
Ox teams are steered by commands or noise -LRB- whip cracks -RRB- and many teamsters were known for their voices and language.
Oxen can pull harder and longer than horses, especially for very large loads.
They are not as fast as horses, but they are less often injured.
Many oxen are still in use all over teh world, especially in poor countries.
HEADING Other information
The ox is one of the 12-year cycle of animals which appear in the Chinese zodiac related to the Chinese calendar.
See : Ox -LRB- Zodiac -RRB-.
The constellation Taurus represents a bull.
HEADING External links
Cattle Breeds website - Oklahoma State University
PBS Nature : Holy Cow -LRB- about cows in general -RRB-
For the number, see one.
A woman has a uterus or womb.
A woman has a uterus or a womb.
Women give birth to babies or children.
Until the middle 1900 's woman did not have the right of birthing, and were treated with disrespect.
The size of something might also be described by several numbers.
So the size -LRB- volume -RRB- of the blue box is 9 cubic feet.
HEADING External links
This shade of indigo, called indigo dye -LRB- shown at left above in the picture and in the color chart below -RRB-, is darker than the spectrum indigo shown above -RRB-.
The color shown at right, electric indigo, is the closest color it is possible to display on a computer to the color of the indigo color band in the rainbow.
Isaac Newton named and defined indigo as a spectrum color when he divided up the spectrum into the seven colors of the rainbow.
Graham, Lanier F. -LRB- editor -RRB- The Rainbow Book Berkeley, California :1976 Shambala Publishing and The Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco -LRB- Handbook for the Summer 1976 exhibition The Rainbow Art Show which took place primarily at the De Young Museum but also at other museums -RRB- Indigo Pages 152-153 The color indigo is stated to represent intuition.
The brightest shade of indigo is the color that is sixth color of the rainbow, a shade lying between blue and violet.
Violet is the seventh color of the rainbow.
It is made by mixing blue and red.
Henry was born in Selby, Yorkshire.
He was the third son of William the Conqueror and Queen Matilda of Flanders.
As King Henry tried to make social reforms.
He issued the the Charter of Liberties which is considered a predecessor of the Magna Carta.
He put back in place some of the laws of Edward the Confessor.
Henry had two children, Matilda and William Adelin, with his wife.
He also father the most illegitimate children of any English King.
Estimates place the number between 20 and 25.
Henry died in 1135 while visiting his daughter and grandchildren in Normandy.
After his death his daughter and his nephew, Stephen, argued over who would become the King or Queen of England.
HEADING Outside links
-- -RRB-
Most states were different from what they are now.
The change to become the modern-day states would happen only later.
Its important features are the pointed arch, the ribbed vault and the flying buttress, which are explained below.
They lived on farms, which were often owned by a rich nobleman -LRB- or lord -RRB-.
The house of the lord were usually called a Manor house.
A big part of Europe was called the Holy Roman Empire.
The Holy Roman Empire included the modern countries of Germany, The Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Austria, eastern France and much of northern Italy, apart from Venice.
People believed the Emperor Charlemagne started the Holy Roman Empire in 800 AD.
This form of economy is known as Manorialism.
Gothic architecture is a style of architecture for buildings in Western Europe in the Middle Ages.
He also married couples when the king prohibited it.
There is a bell in the National Museum of Ireland that was made around the time of Saint Patrick 's life.
There is no evidence that Saint Patrick owned the bell but the Irish have believed the bell belonged to Saint Patrick for 1400 years.
It is believed that the bell was rung by Saint Patrick to let people know it was time for church.
The history of ringing Saint Patrick 's bell in modern times
March 17 - Saint Patrick, patron saint of Ireland -LRB- possibly died this year, could also have died in 493 -RRB-
The name comes from from Sumorsaete which means `` the land of the summer people ''.
Very long ago in the Iron Age, historians believe that people only lived in Somerset in the summer.
In the winter the land was probably under water.
The main town of Somerset was Somerton, but it is now Taunton.
HEADING Industry in Somerset
In 1996 Avon was split into 4 parts, which are now unitary authorities.
People usually say that 2 of these parts -LRB- named North Somerset and Bath and North East Somerset -RRB- are part of Somerset, even though they have their own councils.
The oldest prison in England which is still used is in a town named Shepton Mallet in Somerset.
Somerset also has the world 's oldest road which people built.
It is called the Sweet Track ; it was built in about 3800 BC.
Tourism is an important industry in the county ; in 2001 about 23,000 people worked in tourism.
Tourists like Somerset because it is very beautiful, with much countryside and few big towns.
Somerset has many places to visit :
Part of the Exmoor National Park is in Somerset.
Another popular place is Glastonbury, which has a popular music festival every year.
The Cheddar Gorge has caves which are popular with visitors, and locally made cheese.
Farming is an important industry in Somerset, but not as many people work in this industry today.
Somerset is famous for its cider -LRB- an alcoholic apple drink -RRB- and it has many apple orchards.
It is in the Mendip District.
It was dug in the early 1970s, and it showed many times that people lived there.
The first was in the early Neolithic -LRB- around 4000-3000 BC ? -RRB-
when the hill seems to have been an important place for groups of early farmers who moved around.
Most things were found from when late Bronze Age people lived on the hill -LRB- around 1200 BC -RRB-.
In the Iron Age the site changed, with many big walls.
There are signs that when the Romans came to Britain, they killed many people here.
Ruins of a feasting hall built after the Roman time were also found in the dig.
There are also legends connecting this place with King Arthur.
The scone closely resembles an North American biscuit -LRB- many recipes are, in fact, the same -RRB- -- itself not to be confused with the Commonwealth biscuit, which equates to what North Americans call a `` cookie ''.
Many people think that she was the greatest monarch ever to rule England.
Elizabeth was born in the Palace of Placentia in Greenwich, England.
She was the daughter of King Henry VIII of England and his second wife, Anne Boleyn.
When she was very young, she lost her right to be called a princess, because her mother was found guilty of having lovers and was executed.
After Anne 's death, the king said she should no longer be treated as his daughter.
Her half-sister Mary was in the same position.
Mary was much older than Elizabeth, but her mother had been divorced by King Henry and she was also being treated as if she was not the King 's daughter.
After Anne Boleyn died, King Henry married Jane Seymour, who became queen.
Jane had a baby son, who was named Edward.
Men were thought to make better rulers than women, so Edward became heir to the throne as soon as he was born.
Elizabeth was taken away from the royal court and was looked after by other people.
She was given a good education.
When she was thirteen, King Henry died.
Elizabeth 's younger half-brother, Edward, became King even though he was only a child.
He was called King Edward VI of England.
Because King Henry had no other children, he left a will saying that, if Edward had no children of his own, Mary would be queen after him, and Elizabeth would be queen after Mary.
At the time no one thought this would ever happen, but Edward died when he was only fifteen.
Mary then became queen, and was called Queen Mary I of England.
During Mary 's reign, life became difficult for Elizabeth.
When King Henry VIII divorced Mary 's mother, he had quarrelled with the Pope and most people in England had turned away from the Roman Catholic religion.
Mary had been loyal to the old religion, and, as soon as she became queen, she married King Philip II of Spain, who was a Roman Catholic.
This marriage made her unpopular because Spain and England were old enemies.
Mary wanted everyone else in England to be Roman Catholic again, so she tried to make Elizabeth attend Roman Catholic services.
Elizabeth pretended to believe the same as Mary, but she was not really a Catholic.
Because of the argument over religion, many people in the country preferred Elizabeth to Mary and wanted to make her queen.
She was accused of trying to take Mary 's throne, and was even put into the Tower of London for a while.
Elizabeth became the Queen of England in 1558 after her half-sister, Queen Mary, died.
This law decided that the king was the head of the church in England.
Elizabeth tried to bring Catholics and Protestants together.
She did not believe that people should be punished for what they believed in, but she was strict about people keeping to the rules of the church.
Because Elizabeth was a woman, many people believed that she would do whatever her husband told her.
Mary 's marriage to Philip of Spain had caused a lot of problems, and Elizabeth did not want to make the same mistake in marrying a foreign ruler.
This was probably one of the reasons that she refused all of the marriages proposed to her.
If Elizabeth had married a man who was not a prince or king, that might also have caused problems because other people would have been jealous of her husband.
Most people believe that she was in love with Robert Dudley, the 1st Earl of Leicester.
She had first met Robert Dudley when they were both prisoners in the Tower of London during Queen Mary 's reign.
However, Robert Dudley was already married to a woman called Amy Robsart.
After Elizabeth became queen, there was gossip about her friendship with Robert Dudley.
Not long afterwards, Amy died in an accident.
It seems that she fell down stairs, but her body was not found until later.
Some people said that her husband had arranged for her to be killed, so that he would be free to marry Queen Elizabeth.
All this gossip made it impossible for Elizabeth to marry him.
When Elizabeth found she could not marry the man she loved, she may have decided that she would not marry at all.
The most likely person to follow Elizabeth to the throne of England was her cousin, Mary Stuart, who was already Queen of Scotland.
Mary Stuart and Elizabeth were rivals, but Mary was a Catholic and Elizabeth was a Protestant.
Mary married a French prince and became the French queen was well as the Queen of Scots.
Some people wanted to force Elizabeth off the throne and replace her with Mary.
Because many Scottish people were Protestants, they did not like Mary and wanted to get rid of her.
She was put in prison, but in 1568, she escaped and ran away to England, to ask for help from Elizabeth.
Elizabeth kept her as a prisoner for many years.
In 1578, Elizabeth was told that Mary had been plotting to kill her and become queen in her place.
Mary was put on trial and found guilty, and Elizabeth agreed to put Mary to death.
This action was popular with Elizabeth 's court, but it made her enemies in the Catholic countries of Europe, such as France and Spain.
HEADING Foreign wars
She even agreed to marry one of their princes, but later changed her mind.
In 1580, Pope Gregory XIII sent an army into Ireland to help with a rebellion against Elizabeth, but this failed.
After the death of Mary Stuart, the trouble with Spain became serious.
Elizabeth did not like King Philip of Spain, who had been married to her elder sister, and she had helped the Netherlands fight against Spain for their independence.
HEADING End of Elizabeth 's reign
After the death of her friend Robert Dudley, Elizabeth was very upset and turned to Dudley 's stepson, the Earl of Essex, who was a young man and not always very sensible.
He let Elizabeth down several times.
In the end, she sent him away from the royal court.
Essex behaved very stupidly by getting a gang of his friends together and trying to take over the country.
Not many people supported them, and they were all executed.
Elizabeth was very hurt by the way he had behaved, and she was even more upset at having to agree to his execution.
She had no children, so she decide that James VI to be the next king of England.
James VI was the son of Mary Stuart, but he was a Protestant.
Elizabeth I died at the age of 69, on March 24, 1603.
She had managed to keep peace in the country and to keep the independence of England.
These were thought to be great achievements.
Alba 's most famous film roles have included a dancer in Sin City and as Marvel Comics character Sue Storm, the Invisible Woman in the Fantastic Four.
She became famous with the television series Dark Angel which was on from 2000 to 2002.
Alba later appeared in several films including Honey in 2003, Sin City in 2005, Fantastic Four (2005), Into the Blue (2005), ' (2007) and Good Luck Chuck of the same year.
Alba often appears on the `` Hot 100 '' section of Maxim magazine and was voted '' Woman in the World '' by FHM in 2007.
Alba has won several awards for her acting, including the Choice Actress Teen Choice Award and Saturn Award for her acting in the series Dark Angel.
They had to travel a lot with her father -- they lived in Biloxi, Mississippi, and Del Rio, Texas before going back to California when she was nine years old.
She was originally hired for two weeks but ended up working for two months because another actress dropped out.
She was then Maya in the television series Flipper.
On the cover of the March 2006 issue, Playboy magazine named Alba among its 25 Celebrities, and the Sex Star of the Year.
However, she later dropped the lawsuit she got personal apology from Playboy owner Hugh Hefner.
He agreed to make donations to two charities that Alba supports.
While filming Dark Angel, Alba began a four year romance with another member of the cast, Michael Weatherly.
This caused controversy due to their 12-year age gap.
When talking about children, Alba said, `` I 'm really girly when it comes to kids.
Alba has also said that she had obsessive-compulsive disorder when she was a child.
This caused a lawsuit that was later dropped.
Jessica Marie Alba Born Henry Marie Alba, was born on April 28, 1981 in Pomona, California -RRB- is an American actress.
SIMPLE ENGLISH WIKIPEDIA IS NOT INFORMATIONAL
In calendars, J can sometimes mean these months - January, June, or July.
In calendars, M sometimes means Monday or means one of the months `` March '' or `` May ''.
When a hidden virus attaches to a host cell and injects its genetic material, the genetic material becomes a part of the cells genetic material and may remain hidden for long periods of time until the virus becomes active.
The function of enzymes is to start, speed up and direct chemical reactions.
Cryptography is the act of encrypting data, or makes the data unreadable unless read with a key telling you how to read it again.
Reading it again is called decrypting.
There are two ways to encrypt data, called symmetric and asymmetric.
Symmetric cryptography uses the same key to encrypt and decrypt a message.
Asymmetric cryptography uses one key -LRB- called the public key -RRB- to encrypt a message and another key -LRB- called the private key -RRB- to decrypt it.
Asymmetric cryptography is also called public key cryptosystems.
A problem with symmetric cryptosystems have a problem is transporting the key from the maker of the key to the person recieving the key without anyone reading and changing the key.
If you could send the key safely, then, in theory, the encryption would not be needed and you could instead send it in the same safe way that you would have used to send the key.
Often, other trusted people are used to give the key to another person.
Another way that is safer and may work better is to send the key encrypted by a different, public key.
HEADING External Links
crypt -LRB- a USENET group about cryptography -RRB-
research -LRB- another USENET group about cryptography -RRB-
Cryptography is a science about sending secret messages.
It is about how to stop people reading messages that they are not allowed to read.
Cryptography is very important in Computing and on the Internet.
When you use the internet, criminals can read the messages that you send.
Cryptography is used to stop them.
When you send your message using cryptography, your computer changes it before it sends it.
The computer makes the message hard to read.
If someone wants to read it, they need to change it back.
But how to change it back is a secret.
Only the person who you sent the message to knows the secret.
Other people do not know it.
So they can not change the message back.
So they can not read it.
So your message is safe.
When you use the Internet, others may be able to read the messages that you send.
A simple form of Cryptography is a Caesar Cipher.
When you use the Internet, other people maybe can read the messages that you send.
The computer makes the message difficult to read.
Other people can not decode it, so your message is normally safe.
In other parts of the world, Tuesday is the second day of the week.
Laos is landlocked -LRB- it does n't have a coast on a sea or ocean -RRB-.
It is bordered Myanmar -LRB- historically known in English as Burma -RRB- and China to the northwest, Vietnam to the east, Cambodia to the south, and Thailand to the west.
Boats from Laos can get to the ocean using the Mekong.
Most of Lao people believe in Buddhism.
This energy can be changed into other sorts of energy such as heat -LRB- if something hits with something soft and does not bounce -RRB-, potential energy -LRB- if it is moving upwards and gets higher -RRB-, or even light -LRB- if it is moving very fast indeed or if it hits something which sparks like flint or iron\/Aluminium -RRB-.
However, heat, light, sound, mechanical energy, and other types of enrgy are also types of kinetic energy.
However, heat, light, sound, mechanical energy, and other types of energy are also types of kinetic energy.
So you can think of it as the energy of movement.
This energy can be changed into other sorts of energy such as heat -LRB- if something hits with something soft and does not bounce -RRB-, potential energy -LRB- if it is moving upwards and gets higher -RRB-, or even light -LRB- if it is moving very, very fast or if it hits something which sparks like flint or iron\/Aluminium -RRB-.
Kinetic Energy is equal to the mass of something times its velocity times times its velocity again, all times 1/2 :
kinetic energy = frac -LCB- 1 -RCB- -LCB- 2 -RCB- mass times velocity times velocity
However, heat, light, sound, mechanical energy, that is like when you work you move that is mechanic energy, and other types of energy are also types of kinetic energy.
A = = History = =
Ships are used for travel, trade and war.
Gender is often a slang word for someone 's sex.
It says if someone feels or acts more like a female or more like a male.
The most simple sentence-structure is `` Subject - Verb ''.
The Dutch language has few grammatical times.
The most used are :
Onvoltooid Tegenwoordige tijd -LRB- present simple -RRB-
Onvoltooid Verleden tijd -LRB- past simple -RRB-
Voltooid Tegenwoordige tijd -LRB- present perfect -RRB-
Voltooid Verleden tijd -LRB- past perfect -RRB-
HEADING Onvoltooid Tegenwoordige Tijd
The most simple verb-time is the Onvoltooid Tegenwoordige Tijd -LRB- ott ; present simple -RRB-.
The ott is used when something is occuring now, or regularly -LRB- like : Hij eet regelmatig -LRB- He eat regularly -RRB- -RRB-.
Most verbs are conjugated -LRB- changed -RRB- in a regular form -LRB- these verbs are called Regelmatige werkwoorden -LRB- regular verbs -RRB- -RRB-.
The word stem of the verb is still there in all of the conjugations -LRB- changes -RRB-.
The correct way of doing this is
Note \* : The stem of a verb is the infintive of the verb without the final - en.
In some verbs, the first syllable is open, and any vowel therefore is long.
The stem changes to a written long vowel.
So the stem of lopen becomes loop.
If the - en is then added to the stem -LRB- for example with wij -RRB-, the written form becomes short again -LRB- but it still will be spoken as a long vowel -RRB-.
HEADING Onvoltooid Verleden Tijd
The past form of the ott is the Onvoltooid Verleden Tijd -LRB- ovt -RRB-.
The way how verbs are conjugated -LRB- changed -RRB- in the ovt is not easy to understand, and is mistaken often.
This is because some verbs are conjugated by adding a D, while others are conjugated while adding a T. A way of solving this problem is the socalled ` t Kofschip.
If the verb without - en -LRB- the stem in most verbs, but not always -RRB- ends with a consonant which is also in '' ` t Kofschip '', the verb is changed with a T. Example :
The verb praten -LRB- to talk -RRB- is changed with a T, because prat ends wit a T.
The verb can now be changed as the following :
There are however words in which '' ` t Kofschip '' is not so easy.
This is for instance in the word vrezen -LRB- to fear -RRB-.
The stem of the verb is vrees, so it seems that the verb is changed with a T. This is not true -LRB- it it changed with a D -RRB-, because vrezen minus - en is vrez.
The Z is not in '' ` t Kofschip '', so the verb is changed with a D.
The verb can now be changed as the following :
HEADING Continuating verbs
The Dutch language has few grammatical tenses.
Actually, there are three types of continuous verbs in Dutch.
The first type is a form of the verb zijn -LRB- to be -RRB- with the actual continuous verb.
This is done, by adding de on the infinitive.
It 's not wrong to use this in Dutch, but it will sound very odd.
It is only used in very formal texts.
The second type is a type where the verb actually functions as an adjective.
Depending on subject, the verb is changed by adding either a `` d '' or `` de '' to the infinitive.
The verb then has the function of while... An example : Hij liep drinkend de supermarkt uit.
In English this is Hij walked out of the supermarket, while drinking.
The third type is a type which is used a lot.
The use of this type can be compared with the English type of continuous.
It is used when something is being done, at that moment, but still not completed yet.
It is made up by a form of zijn + aan het + the infitive.
Example : Ik ben aan het lopen, which means I am walking -LRB- at the moment -RRB-.
The Creative Commons License relates to the name of copyright licenses released on December 16, 2002.
It was released by Creative Commons, a United States nonprofit corporation.
Everybody can put their own creations under these licenses.
There are four basic license conditions.
A simple overview of these four :
Attribution -LRB- by -RRB- : Allow others to copy, distribute, display and perform the work and evolved versions of it.
They must give the original creator credit for the work.
Noncommercial -LRB- nc -RRB- : Allow others to copy, distribute, display and perform the work and evolved version of it.
They are not allowed to make money with it.
No Derivative Works -LRB- nd -RRB- : Allow others to copy, distribute, display and perform the work.
They are not allowed to change the work into something else.
Share Alike -LRB- sa -RRB- : Allow others to distribute evolved works only when they use the same license.
See also copyleft.
It is possible to combine the licenses.
For example the first and fourth together is called `` CC by-sa ''.
This stands for `` Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike ''.
With this license other people must give credit to the original creator, and when they make something new with the work they have to give it the `` CC by-sa '' license.
HEADING Critical Comments = =
The Free Software Foundation thinks that the Creative Commons system is confusing, because people often forget to tell which version of the license they use.
Instead they suggest to use the Free Art license.
For example a combination of the first and fourth is called `` CC by-sa ''.
The licenses were released by Creative Commons, a United States nonprofit corporation.
HEADING Critical comments = =
Albert Einstein, a great scientist, once said, `` If the bee disappeared off the surface of the globe then man would have only four years of life left. ''
Adrian Higgins, `` Honeybees in a Mite More Than Trouble, '' The Washington Post, Tuesday, May 14, 2002, p. AO1
Bees are different because they are specialized as pollination agents, with behavioral and physical modifications that make pollination easier.
Bees are generally better at the task than other pollinating insects such as beetles, flies, butterflies and pollen wasps.
In old prehistoric times dragonflies had wings that were two feet wide.
Wind is the flow of gases.
On Earth, wind is mostly the movement of air.
In outer space, solar wind is the movement of gases or particles from the sun through space.
The strongest winds seen on a planet in our solar system are on Neptune and Saturn.
Short bursts of fast winds are called gusts.
Strong winds that go on for about one minute are called squalls.
Winds that go on for a long time are called many different things, such as breeze, gale, hurricane, and typhoon.
Wind can move land, especially in deserts.
Cold wind can sometimes have a bad effect on livestock.
Wind also affects animals ' food stores, their hunting and the way they protect themselves.
A vertebrate is an animal with a spinal cord or spine -LRB- sometimes called a backbone, even though some spinal cords are surrounded by cartilage instead of bone -RRB- inside its body.
The word comes from `` vertabrae '', the bones that make up most spines.
Sharks, and related skates and rays, are vertebrates with cartilage instead of bones.
The Republic of Singapore is an Asian country at the southern end of the Malay peninsula.
About 4.4 million people live in Singapore, and most of them are Chinese.
It was set up as a British trading town in 1819 by Sir Thomas Stamford Raffles, and soon became an important British town in the region.
After Japan surrendered in 1945, Singapore was returned to the British.
The suffering during World War II made the people realize that the British were not so powerful.
They realized that they had to defend Singapore themselves.
In 1963, Singapore joined Malaya, Sabah and Sarawak to form the new nation of the Federation of Malaysia.
But although Singapore wanted equality, Malaysia let the Malays have special benefits.
This caused arguments between the two governments, forcing Singapore to break away.
However, the people of Singapore were determined, and learned many new things.
This allowed the industry and port of Singapore to do well, and it is now a rich nation.
Singapore is doing very well economically.
Its economy is as good as some European ones.
Singaporeans speak Mandarin the most, but also speak English, Malay and Chinese dialects.
`` Singapore '' means `` Lion city '' in Sanskrit, an ancient Indian language.
The official languages of Singapore are English, Mandarin, Malay and Tamil.
Malay is the national language of Singapore but most Singaporeans speak English.
HEADING History
Singapore was set up as a British trading town in 1819 by Sir Thomas Stamford Raffles, and soon became an important British town in the region.
The suffering during World War II made the people began to think that the British were not so powerful.
In 1963, Singapore joined Malaya, Sabah and Sarawak to form the new nation of the Malaysia.
Malaysia is a country with many races.
Among the races, the Malays have special benefits.
For example, the Malays can get university education more easily than other races.
Most people in Singapore are Chinese.
Singapore wanted equality -LRB- equal treatment -RRB- for all the people of Malaysia.
This caused quarrels between the state government of Singapore and the federal government of Malaysia.
Singapore separated from Malaysia and became independent on August 9 1965.
However, the people of Singapore wanted to make their new country better.
Today, Singapore is doing very well economically.
Its economy is as good as some European coutries.
Singapore 's mode of exchanging goods and services is the Singapore dollar.
Singapore 's currency is the Singapore dollar.
They fell in love.
They had a son.
They called him Caesarion.
For example, Germany 's king was called a Kaiser up to the year 1919 AD and Russia 's king was called a Tsar until the year 1917 AD.
In the year 1599 AD, William Shakespeare wrote a drama Julius Caesar about the death of Caesar and what happened next.
The Bhagavad Gita is an important book of Hinduism.
It is a talk between Krishna and Arjuna.
In these talks, Krishna tells about the importance of doing one 's duty.
The Bhagavad Gita calls this duty as Karma.
HEADING Hindu texts
There are many texts relating to Hinduism.
Most of them have been written in Sanskrit.
These texts are called Hindu scriptures.
Important texts of Hindu religion include the following :
Shruti
Smriti
Hindus use several prayers and group of words.
Some group of words are called mantras.
HEADING Hindu symbols
Hindus use many symbols and signs.
Two most important symbols used by Hindus are named `` Aum '' and `` Swastika ''.
It has been said to derive from beliefs of the Aryans, Dravidians, and Harappans living in the Indian subcontinent.
Hinduism subsequently birthed Buddhism and Jainism, which in turn affected the development of Hinduism itself.
Also see Early Hinduism and Aryan Invasion Theory.
HEADING A brief overview
Hinduism rests on the spiritual foundation of the Vedas, the Upanishads, as well as the teachings of many Hindu gurus through the ages.
The four goals of life
Hinduism beleives in four main goals of life.
The main purpose of the Purva Mimamsa line of thought was to give an upper position to the Vedas.
In the long term, this line of thought showed the way to better understanding of the Vedas.
Adi Sankara and Swami Vivekananda followed this line of thought to explain the meaning of Hindu beleifs.
The four stages of life
In Hinduism, life of a human being is divided into four stages.
These stages are called Ashramas, and they are :
Brahmacharya, the first quarter of life as a bachelor - to be spent in learning, building the body and the mind.
Grihasthya, the second quarter of life as a person with a family, and doing work for livelihood.
Vanaprastha, the fourth phase of life, spent in forests and in meditation.
Sanyasa, the last phase of life, spent without any feeling and attachment to the world.
Yoga Dharma
Hinduism tells about a particular way of life to lead as a Hindu.
This is done by way of Yogas -LRB- spiritual practices -RRB-, mainly as follows :
bhakti -LRB- loving devotion -RRB-
Karma Yoga -LRB- selfless service -RRB-
Raja Yoga -LRB- meditational Yoga -RRB- and
Jnana Yoga -LRB- Yoga of discrimination -RRB-
The way to do all these have been described in the two principal texts of Hindu Yoga : the Bhagavad Gita and the Yoga Sutras.
The Upanishads also contain important texts about yoga.
96% of Hindus live in India.
According to Hinduism, any kind of spiritual practice example praying or doing special exercises called yogathat is followed with faith, love and much effort will help someone be good at doing something.
Hinduism encourages tolerance for what other people believe, since worldly systems can not claim sole understanding of the one True god or deity.
People who believe in Hinduism are called Hindus.
They pray in many different ways.
It is the third (3) largest religion in the world.
There are almost 1.05 billion Hindus worldwide.
According to Hinduism, any kind of spiritual practice praying or doing special exercises called yoga that is followed with faith, love and a hard struggle will help someone be good at doing something.
For Vaishnvaites who follow Ramunjacharaya 's philosophy, Devi is Lakshmi, the Mother of all, and who pleads with Vishnu for mankind, who is filled with wrongs and sins.
Hinduism -LRB- ; San tana Dharma, which means Eternal Religion -RRB- is thought to be the oldest major world religion that is still practiced today.
It was the first religion that had a concept of reincarnation.
In Hinduism spiritual practice -LRB- such as praying or doing special exercises called yoga -RRB- is very important.
If one follows it with faith, love and a hard struggle that will help him for all his doings.
Hinduism encourages tolerance for what other people believe.
Hindus beleive that there is not only one correct understanding of the one True god.
Hinduism lays on the spiritual foundation of the Vedas, the Upanishads, as well as the teachings of many Hindu gurus through the ages.
Hernan 's journeys started in 1502 when he 'd heard stories about the New World and went on a journey led by Nicolas de Ovando and Diego Velazquez to the West Indies.
Hernan 's journeys started in 1502 when he had heard stories about the New World.
He then went on a journey led by Nicolas de Ovando and Diego Velazquez to the West Indies.
In July of 1519, the Spanish took over Veracruz where 100 men were left.
In October, 1519, Hernando went to Cholula with his soldiers and around three thousand Tlaxcalteca -LRB- another tribe -RRB- to scare the Aztecs in Tenochtitlan.
He then went on a killing spree and burnrf down the city.
When he came to Tanochtitlan, there was a vast army and in November, they were welcomed by the emperor of the Aztecs, Moctezumall, who let them into the teritory to learn their flaws and then destroyed them.
The emperor gave them gold and Hernando later told King Charles V that the Aztecs might of thought he was one of their gods, Quetzellcoatl, a feathered servant that has fair skin and a beard.
But Hernando quickly realized that some Spaniards had been attacked on the coast and planned to kidnap Montezma and his house and make him swear loyalty to King Charles V.
The emperor gave them gold and Hernando later told King Charles V that the Aztecs might have thought he was one of their gods, Quetzellcoatl, a feathered servant that has fair skin and a beard.
This tag uses the name of the image as well as some keywords to know where an image should be shown on a page.
There are some words -LRB- keywords -RRB- that are understood by the image tag.
The center position should not be used on most articles.
Framed images will not be changed by having a size : they are always shown at full size.
Changing : There is no information available right now on Wikipedia about how to change the caption of an image once it has been set - even if it is wrong.
The Roman Catholic Church said people could not translate the Bible into other languages, for example Italian or English because many people could not read and it took the lifetime of a monk, by himself, to translate the Bible.
Bible study is intensive reading of the Bible.
Atheists reply by saying that their morals are just as good, or even better because they were not told to believe in them.
Atheism is the belief that no God or gods exist.
A person who does not believe that any god -LRB- or gods -RRB- exist is called an atheist.
Atheism is different from agnosticism in that an agnostic thinks there is doubt that you can prove a god exists, but may -LRB- or may not -RRB- believe in a god anyway.
Thus, in Greek it means `` without gods ''.
The English word, atheism, comes from the French ' from the 16th century.
http://www.americanreligionsurvey-aris.org/ `` American Religion Identification Survey '' In some countries such as the United Kingdom, Canada, the Netherlands and the United States, there are laws that protect atheists ' right not to have a religion.
Atheism is the rejection of belief in the existence of deities -LRB- God or gods -RRB-.
Atheism is different from agnosticism in that an agnostic has doubts about God, but may still believe anyway.
Atheism is different from agnosticism.
Agnostics say that the existence -LRB- or non-existence -RRB- of God can not be proven by science.
Despite this, Agnostics may still believe in one or more deities.
Atheism is the belief that there are no gods.
A person who believes there are no gods is called an atheist.
Atheism is not the same as agnosticism.
Agnostics say that there is no way to know whether gods exist or not.
Even so, agnostics may still believe in a god or gods.
Atheists often give reasons why they do not believe in a god or gods.
There are three reasons that they often give : the problem of evil, the argument from inconsistent revelations and the argument from nonbelief.
Agnostics say that there is no way to know whether gods exist or not, but they may -LRB- or may not -RRB- still believe in one or more gods.
have looked at strong -LRB- positive -RRB- atheism against weak -LRB- negative -RRB- atheism.
Strong atheism is the sure belief that God\/s do not exist.
Weak atheism is all other forms of not believing in God\/s.
According to this idea, anyone who does not believe in God\/s is either a weak or a strong atheist.
The terms weak and strong are quite recent, the terms negative and positive are older.
They have been used more often in philosophical writing and in Catholic beliefs.
since at least 1813.
Under this definition of atheism, most agnostics are weak atheists.
In this, Clifford shows some examples how people can believe in things which go against what they see or feel.
The emigrants have to give him money to be able to go on the ship.
The ship is old, and in a bad state, it needs to be fixed badly.
At first the shipowner thought about fixing the ship, even though that this would cost a lot of money.
Before the ship sails, he can overcome these doubts, by telling himself that the ship has safely made many trips and survived many storms before, so it would also be good for this trip, so his fear is unfounded.
The shipowner is greedy and takes the money the insurance pays for the ship.
According to Clifford, the shipowner did something that is wrong, when he made himself believe there were no problems with the ship, he did so out of greed.
Even if the ship had made its trip safely, the shipowner would have done something that is wrong.
According to Clifford, it is always wrong to believe on insufficient grounds.
Atheists commonly reply to this that there is is no difference between an unproven ideas about religion, and one about other things.
and that the lace of proof of a god 's existence does not mean that he does n't exist any less then it means that he does.
Scottish philosopher J. J. C. Smart says that `` sometimes a person who is really an atheist may describe herself, even passionately, as an agnostic because of unreasonable generalised philosophical skepticism which would preclude us from saying that we know anything whatever, except perhaps the truths of mathematics and formal logic. ''
So, some popular atheist authors such as Richard Dawkins prefer to show the difference between theist, agnostic and atheist positions by the probability assigned to the statement `` God exists ''.
In this essay, Clifford shows some examples how people can believe in things which go against what they see or feel.
One of these examples is that of a shipowner who transports emigrants.
The emigrants have to pay to be able to go on the ship.
Atheism is when someone does not believe in gods.
It is the opposite of theism, which is when someone believes in at least one god.
A person who rejects belief in gods is called an atheist.
HEADING Where the word comes from
It was built on islands in a lake.
People still use Aztec symbols in Mexico.
Herbert Hoover was the only other United States President to belong to the Quaker faith.
Nixon was very successful in foreign affairs.
When Richard Nixon was President, his first Vice President was Spiro Agnew, but Agnew resigned because he took bribes while he was Governor of Maryland, and then Nixon chose Ford to be his next Vice President.
Ford died in his home in California on December 26, 2006 at the age of 93 years and 165 days.
No other president ever has lived to be that old.
Pedipalps are the two `` feelers '' on a spider 's face.
Some spiders seem to have ten legs and not eight, because these pedipalps look like an extra pair of legs.
But the pedipalps are more similar to arms.
Spiders often use these to hold small animals -LRB- for example crickets -RRB- for them to eat.
Male -LRB- father -RRB- spiders also use pedipalps for mating - for making baby spiders.
The male spiders put sperm onto a piece of web -LRB- the spider 's `` house '' -RRB-, and then put their pedipalps into the sperm.
The pedipalps then hold the sperm, and the spider can use it to mate with a female -LRB- mother spider -RRB-.
HEADING Starch in food
HEADING Laundry starch
There are also different kinds of Starch like Laundry Starch which is a liquid that is made by mixing vegetable starch in water and it is used in washing clothes.
The reason there is starch in clothes is because it gives clothing a smooth and crisp feel.
Sweat and dirt from a person 's wrist and neck would stick to the starch on the clothes, and not on the fibers of the clothes and would wash away along with the starch.
Then, after each laundry load, the starch would be used again.
HEADING Other facts
Animals and humans have amylase, so they can digest starch.
A picture is group of colored points on a flat surface looks the same as something.
For example, a picture can look the same as an object or a person.
HEADING Making Pictures
HEADING Using Cameras for Pictures
Most pictures today are really ` photographs '.
Photographs are made with cameras.
A camera makes a picture that looks very real.
HEADING Before Cameras
HEADING Where are Pictures ?
In special or old places, such as churches, sometimes you can see pictures on windows made out of colored pieces of glass.
These are called ` stained glass '.
HEADING Special types of Pictures
HEADING Moving Pictures
If you take a lot of pictures, and show them one at a time, very fast, you can make a picture look like the picture are moving.
This is called a `` moving picture '', or a movie.
A television shows you a picture by using light shined on a glass screen.
When light shines through this kind of picture onto a wall or another flat place, the picture can be seen on that flat place.
HEADING Three Dimensional Pictures
HEADING Use of Pictures
An earthquake in Bam, Iran in 2003 killed 40,000 people.
It is not easy to build earthquake-proof buildings.
HEADING Types of buildings
HEADING Culture and entertainment
HEADING Other websites
If the fire spreads, it can grow into a very big fire and even burn down a house or building.
Poisons are things that can make people sick.
People may even die if they eat poisons or come in contact with them.
There are other types of dangerous materials.
These are :
Pollution also sometimes is poisonous.
For example, large amounts of potato peeling scraps or milk can kill organisms in waterways, because they contain so much nutrients for microbes that the microbes consume all oxygen from the waterway.
Amphibian, and insect babies are called larva.
A larva does not look like the adult animal, and changes shape when it grows up.
In daily talk they are sometimes called Dad or Daddy.
Most animals including human beings are born from a mother and a father.
Creators or inventors are sometimes called fathers.
In some religions, like the Jewish religion or Christianity, the God is called Father.
In the Christian belief the God has three personas ; Father, Son and the Holy Spirit.
Frogs are born as tadpoles -LRB- the name for frog 's larva -RRB- from eggs.
They sometimes live in trees and sometimes have poison.
Frogs are born as tadpoles -LRB- the name for baby frogs -RRB- from eggs.
When they grow up, they lose their tails and have four long legs.
A frog is an amphibian animal.
They belong to the order Anura.
No is a term that means an someone is denying or turning away something.
I will not come with you on Saturday simmel.
I will not come on you on Saturday simmel.
Devon is the second largest county in England, and has the longest road network of any county in England.
Archaelogists have found many old places in Devon with ancient buildings.
For example, many ruins of old buildings have been found on an area called `` Dartmoor ''.
Devon gets its name from the Dumnonii, a name which the invading Romans gave to the Celtic tribe in that area.
The Romans invaded Devon near AD 50.
The name Dumnonii means `` a person who lives in a deep valley '', and it comes from the hills and valleys of the area.
It was a long time before anyone else invaded Devon.
A few Saxons came to Devon in the 7th Century, and the King of Wessex attacked in 614.
There was a big war between Devon and Wessex for 100 years.
Some historians think that Wessex won the war by about 715.
In 805, Devon became a part of Wessex, but the Kings of Devon still had some power.
The native Devon people -LRB- Britons -RRB- lived with the Saxons peacefully.
A person living at the time, called William of Malmesbury said that in Exeter both Britons and Saxons were equal.
DNA tests show that the ancestors of many people from Devon were Britons.
Archaeologists have found many old places in Devon with ancient buildings.
Devon gets its name from the Dumnonii, a name that the invading Romans gave to the Celtic tribe in that area.
Saxons came to Devon in the 7th century, and the King of Wessex attacked in 614.
But there is also a story of King Athelstan of Wessex chasing the Britons from Exeter.
The towns and villages of Devon usually have Anglo-Saxon -LRB- Old English -RRB- names, but some have parts from the Brythonic -LRB- Celtic -RRB- language, for example the ending '' - combe '' -LRB- like Ilfracombe -RRB-, which is similar to the Welsh -LRB- language -RRB- `` cwm ''.
But there are almost no Celtic place names in Devon of the type found in Cornwall.
Devon is a county of England.
It is sometimes called Devonshire although this is not its correct name.
Some towns and villages in Devon have Anglo-Saxon -LRB- Old English -RRB- names, but some others have names from the Brythonic -LRB- Celtic -RRB- language, for example the ending '' - combe '' -LRB- like Ilfracombe -RRB-, which is similar to the Welsh -LRB- language -RRB- `` cwm ''.
Although Celtic placenames in Devon are more common than in counties further east -LRB- such as Somerset -RRB- they are not as common as in Cornwall.
The Roman alphabet is the alphabet used for many modern-day languages.
It came from the Greek alphabet, and was first used to write Latin, but many languages are written with it today.
Many languages changed their writing systems to the Roman alphabet from other ones.
In many countries, European settlers have made native people use the Latin alphabet.
When the Soviet Union broke up, many Eastern European countries changed their languages to use the Roman alphabet from the Cyrillic alphabet.
After World War II many Turkish countries have changed their original alphabets -LRB- arab, persian or cyrillic -RRB- with the latin alphabet.
The latin alphabet in turkish countries started to be used by Kemal Ataturk in Turkey and now it is used in Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan.
Edmonton is the capital city of Alberta.
There are about 800,000 people in Edmonton.
Edmonton is just north of the middle of Alberta in the prairie part of the province.
There are many farms close to Edmonton.
The city started as a trading post on the North Saskatchewan river.
Edmonton turned into a city mostly over the last 100 years.
Edmonton is the home of one of the world 's largest shopping malls.
This mall is called the West Edmonton Mall.
This mall has over 800 stores, more than one hotel, an indoor park with water, an ice rink, moving picture theaters, places to eat and drink, and a park with rides.
Many people visit the West Edmonton Mall.
Edmonton also has more sun than all other cities in Canada.
However, the summer can go above 25 or 30 degrees and the sun will be up until 11 pm in June.
There are many popular events in both summer and winter, such as Heritage Days, the Folk Festival, and the Fringe.
But other cities are warmer than Edmonton.
Winter temperatures often are below -20 degrees Celsius.
It is common for it be even colder -LRB- below -30 degrees Celcius -RRB- for a few days in January or February.
However, the summer can be warmer than 25 or 30 degrees.
The sun does not set until after 11 pm in June.
The city started as a trading post on the North Saskatchewan River.
This mall has over 800 stores, more than one hotel, an indoor park with water, an ice skating rink, moving picture theaters, places to eat and drink, and a park with rides.
In December 2005, Sharon was taken into hospital.
On January 4, 2006, Sharon was again taken to the hospital.
Rumours spread immediately of his death, though these were denied by his physicians.
Jameson is a famous brand of Irish whisky.
It is amber in color and quite strong.
It is an alcoholic beverage.
Jameson is my name dont wear it out
is the
Psychology is a based on the scientific study of the mind, brain, and behavior, using both humans and animals.
Psychologists are people who practice or work in the field of Psychology.
A psychologist may work in either basic research or in applied research.
Basic research is investigating an area of interest simply because he or she wants to know more about it.
Applied research is using knowledge from basic research to solve real-world problems.
Psychology has many different divisions or areas of study and practice.
HEADING Education
To become a psychologist, a person must first get a degree at university.
Then the person goes to graduate school.
A Master 's degree takes a shorter time and the graduate can use the initials M.S. -LRB- Master of Science -RRB- after his name.
A Doctorate degree takes a longer time and the graduate can use the initials Ph. D. -LRB- Doctor of Philosophy -RRB- after his name.
Major Theories of Psychology
Psychology is the scientific study of the mind, brain, and behavior.
It studies both humans and animals.
The sticks are held together in the same hand -- the right hand.
Put one chopstick between the palm and the base of the thumb, using the ring finger -LRB- the fourth finger from the thumb -RRB- to support the lower part of the stick.
Turn the upper stick up and down towards the stationary lower stick.
With enough practice, the two sticks function like a pair of pincers -LRB- a tool that can easily lift things -RRB-.
With practice, it is possible to perform step one and two right away, on picking up the chopsticks with one hand smoothly.
Hold the chopstick at different angles if necessary in order to feel comfortable with two sticks between your fingers.
They are also known as.
This is what is usually printed on disposable chopsticks.
The English word `` chopstick '' seems to have be from Chinese Pidgin English, a pidgin where `` chop chop '' meant quickly.
The Mandarin Chinese word for chopsticks is kuàizi.
It is a word made of different parts ; it has the phonetic part of '' '', which means quick, and a semantic part,, meaning bamboo.
This discovery may mean there was some form of trade between the Middle East and Asia in early antiquity.
Alternatively, such tools may have developed independently in both the Middle East and Asia.
The English word `` chopstick '' seems to come from Chinese Pidgin English, a pidgin where `` chop chop '' meant quickly.
There are basically two kinds of problems with chopsticks :
When people are eating with chopsticks they usually do n't use a knife and fork.
A king is made by putting one plain piece on top of another.
The darker color moves first.
A piece can be moved forward, diagonally, to the very next dark square.
But if one player 's piece, the other player 's piece, and an empty square are lined up, then the first player must `` jump '' the other player 's piece.
A player can use one piece to make multiple jumps in any one single turn, provided each jump continues to lead immediately into the next jump.
Sometimes a player may have the option or a choice of which opponent piece he must jump.
In such cases, he may then choose which to jump.
HEADING Other websites
He developed the idea of a system in which each worker has the duty to do one small part of the process of making something.
Genghis Khan -LRB- c. 1155\/1162\/1167 - August 18, 1227 -RRB- was a Mongol khan and military leader who unified the Mongol tribes and founded the Mongol Empire.
The khans who came after him would make Mongolia into the largest empire in human history.
Genghis was the grandfather of Kublai Khan, who was the first emperor of the Yuan Dynasty in China.
It is still not known exactly where Genghis is buried.
Informations about Genghis Khan - A full section about Mongolian History and Genghis Khan, and more than 100 pictures from a movie about Genghis
Because of the lack of records, there is very little information about the early life of Temüjin.
Because his father was a chieftain, as were the ones before him, Temüjin was of a noble background.
Joseph Stalin -LRB- December 18 December 6 1879 & ndash ; March 5, 1953 -RRB- was the adopted name of the Communist dictator, Iosev Jugashvili.
HEADING Stalin 's name
In Russian, - Iosif Vissarionovich Stalin, born - Dzhugashvili.
In Georgian : Ioseb Jughashvili
HEADING Early life
Iosif Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili was born in Gori, Georgia -LRB- country -RRB-.
His father 's job was to make and fix shoes.
He studied to be a priest at a seminary -LRB- school for priests -RRB-.
During his studies he started reading about the ideas of Karl Marx.
He left school and joined the groups that were trying to start a revolution to remove the Tsar.
They wanted a different type of government.
He was arrested by the police several times, and was sent to Siberia.
HEADING Secretary
Stalin was a member of the Bolshevik Party, but did not have an active role in the Russian Revolution of 1917.
He had a number of clerical and management jobs in the Communist Party.
In 1922 he became General Secretary.
He was able to give jobs to people he liked in the Communist Party.
These supporters helped him become the leader after Vladimir Lenin died in 1924.
HEADING World War II
HEADING References
He was a totalitarian ruler, who reached the top by anyone who stood in his way.
He stayed in power by removing anyone he thought might be a threat to him.
His ideas and turned the Soviet Union into a powerful, modern, nation, the largest state on earth, but also led to the deaths of millions of people.
This form of communism was later called Stalinism.
Iosif Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili was born in a small one room house in Gori, Georgia -LRB- country -RRB-.
His father was often drunk and used to hit his wife and his son, until his death in a fight in 1890.
Joseph had smallpox which left his face ; later photographs were often changed to hide the scars.
His left arm was also shorter because of a childhood accident.
He was educated at the Gori church school.
Stalin studied to be a priest at a seminary -LRB- school for priests -RRB- in Tbilisi.
He was an active student reading many books, especially books banned by the seminary, including books by Karl Marx.
He joined a Marxist group in 1898, the Mesame Dasi, or Group Three.
HEADING Revolutionary
He left school in 1899 and got a job at the Tbilisi Physical Institute.
He joined up with groups that were trying to start a revolution to remove the Tsar.
The police raided his house in 1901 while hunting for people who opposed the government.
Stalin escaped but went into hiding so the police could not find him.
He organized anti government activities such as May Day marches and protests.
He became a Bolshevik, supporting a violent revolution, and did not support the more moderate policy of the Mensheviks.
The secret police caught him in April 1902 and exiled him without trial to Siberia.
He lived in the village of Novaya Uda.
He soon escaped from Siberia, which led to many later claims that he was a police spy.
The arrest of another Bolshevik, Stephan Shaumyan, a rival of Stalin, increased these beliefs.
At the end of 1905, he went to a meeting in Finland and met Vladimir Ilich Lenin.
Stalin was disappointed to find that Lenin was just an ordinary man.
The government arrested and exiled Stalin several times in the next ten years.
This increased his power in the Bolshevik party and he was elected to the Central Committee of the party in 1912.
He was promoted to a position at St. Petersburg.
He was writing and editing Pravada, the party newspaper.
He had a number of organizational jobs in the Communist Party.
The three of them began a process called `` De-Stalinization '', which meant taking apart the political system that Stalin created.
Stalin is a very controverisal figure in history ; many historians see him as a ruthless dictator
, while others praise him as the Father of the Soviet State
A recent poll in Russia (2008) listed him as the third most popular person in Russian history.
He was a totalitarian ruler, and stayed in power by removing anyone he thought might be a threat to him.
His father made and fixed shoes.
His father was often drunk and used to hit his wife and his son until his death in a fight in 1890.
Joseph had smallpox when he was young.
This left his face scarred.
Later, photographs were often changed to hide the scars.
His left arm was also shorter because of an accident.
He was an active student reading many books, especially books that were not allowed by the seminary.
This included books by Karl Marx.
He joined groups that were trying to start a revolution to remove the Tsar.
He organized anti-government activities such as May Day marches and protests.
He became a Bolshevik.
He supported a violent revolution, and did not support the Mensheviks.
He soon escaped from Siberia.
This led to many later claims that he was a police spy.
Lenin was not what Stalin had expected.
Stalin was a member of the Bolshevik Party, but did not do much in the Russian Revolution of 1917.
San Marino is one of the smallest countries in the world.
Many of San Marino 's people say their country is the world 's oldest republic still in existence, since it was founded in A.D. 301 by a skilled builder referred to as Saint Marinus.
Even though it is an independent, it is strongly dependent on Italy.
Since the 19th century, when Italy was unified, San Marino has been fully surrounded by Italy.
The dominant industry in San Marino is tourism.
San Marino is not a member of the European Union, but the euro is used in San Marino.
People in San Marino speak the Italian language.
Funeral is an official ceremony of burying someone who has died.
A funeral ceremony can be held in the house of the dead, a church, a temple or a public place.
The family of the dead and friends come together, remember the dead and make console each other.
If it is a religious ceremony, they say a prayer for the dead so that his or her soul may rest in peace.
The family of the dead and friends come together, remember the dead, and console each other.
There are lots of different traditions that different religions use.
Hey baby
Hey baby hey ya mamma hey ya baby
There is a rumor that some people have bells over the grave so if they get buried alive they can ring it and they will get dug up
There is a rumor that some people have bells over the grave so if they get buried alive they can ring it and they will get dug up.
Sometimes at funerals the deads family or friends want to pray or say something nice about who died.
When people buy stone gravestones it is probably because when the dead is buried they dont want bugs get through the coffin and eating at the dead.
The family and friends of the dead come together, remember the dead, and comfort each other.
Present day funeral or memorial services may often be more like a thanksgiving for the life of the dead person, rather than just thinking about the sadness of death.
Memorial folders or prayer cards are handed out at many funeral services and this, too, is a way to make a funeral service personal.
Family members bring favorite pictures, or memorabilia to display as another reminder of the deceased -LRB- the person who has died -RRB-.
Headstones are bought so that everyone can see who has been buried in a specific grave.
They usually tell the name, date of birth and the date of death.
HEADING Types of phrasal verbs
But the spread of the naming could also be from the view of the cities of the Hanseatic League.
Someme of its main cities, liuke Lübeck, Bremen or Hamburg had basically the same view.
Anne Frank -LRB- June 12 1929 -- March 1945 -RRB- was a Jewish girl who wrote a diary while she was hiding with her family from the Nazis.
They lived in the Dutch city Amsterdam in World War II.
Someone told the Nazis where she and her family were hiding.
Then the Nazis took them to a concentration camp in Germany.
There Anne and the rest of her family died.
The only family member who did not die was Anne 's father Otto.
It became one of the world 's most widely-read books.
Soon after Adolf Hitler came to power in Germany -LRB- in 1933 -RRB-, Anne 's father decided that the family would move to Holland.
Anne 's father, Otto Frank, was scared that the Nazis will find him, and his family.
Miep agreed to help.
In 1942, the Frank family, together with the Van Dans and a doctor named Albert Dussel, moved into the secret annex that they had prepared.
A few months before the Franks went into hiding, Anne was given a diary, for her birthday.
Nazi soldiers came into the Frank 's secret hiding place.
Napoleon was born Napoleone di Buonaparte in Ajaccio, Corsica to Carlo Buonaparte, a lawyer and politician, and his wife, Marie-Letizia Buonaparte.
He helped the French Republic from those who supported the former king of France.
The French needed to threaten Britain 's empire in India and the French Directory 's concerns that Napoleon would take control of France.
Napoleon went back to France because of a change in the French government.
By February 1800, Napoleon was the First Consul of France.
France was still at war with most of Europe.
His changes to the legal system, the Napoleonic Code, are considered to be a good change.
Napoleon became First Consul for Life in 1802 and Emperor of France in 1804.
This means that he was essentially a dictator.
Napoleon and France won many battles against a range of alliances between Austria, Britain, Russia, and Prussia.
Early on, Napoleon won many battles like the Battle of Austerlitz.
The British victory at the Battle of Trafalger let the British control the ocean and sea.
Napoleon made his brother the ruler of Spain.
His former troops joined him and he again became ruler of France for a length of 100 days.
Napoleon was sent to the island of Saint Helena off the coast of Africa.
This can also be shown as sqrt -LCB- 3 ^ 2 +4 ^ 2 -RCB- = 5 ^ 2
The internal temperature, so-called core body temperature, of the human body is close to 37 C or 98 F.
Isotherm maps are used to show how temperature is different across an area.
Temperature will be different during different times of day, different seasons and in different places.
Temperature is also important in weather and climate.
The temperature inside the human body is close to 37 C or 98 F.
In the USA, degrees Fahrenheit -LRB- F -RRB- are more often used while Scientists mostly use degrees Kelvins -LRB- K -RRB- to measure temperature because it never goes below zero.
It was given away for free at civil registry offices during the time when the Nazi government had power Germany.
There were several editions between 1925 and 1945.
With each new edition, the text was revised as well.
This was done to clarify those parts of the text that were unclear.
Probably, Ghostwriters around Hitler did this work.
In the book, Hitler describes -LRB- talks about -RRB- his view of greater Germany.
When he came to power, in 1933, he realized -LRB- made happen -RRB- some of those plans.
This resulted in agenocide known as The Holocaust.
Hilter wanted to unite Austria with Germany.
-LRB- The annexion took place in 1938.
Then a puppet government contorlled by Austrian Nazis asked hitler to annex Austria. -RRB-
The Soviet Union should be split into parts.
Christopher Columbus was the first European to set foot on the land, but there were already natives living there for a long time.
Venezuela 's inhabitants are very racially mixed.
This comes from the colonial period.
When whites -LRB- the British, Spaniards, French, etc -RRB- conquered America 's territory, they took their black African slaves to America to work.
During Venezuela 's colonial time, black people did not have any rights.
They just worked for food.
The native people were taught the roman catholic religion.
In the beginning, the Church said that Amerindians were n't people, but later, the Pope thought that Amerindians were people.
For a long time, white creoles, people in Venezuela that were descended from Spaniards but considered Venezuela home, headed society.
The Venezuelan people did n't like that, and started thinking about independance.
On July 24, 1823, Venezuela won its independence, led by Simon Bolivar.
The current president is Hugo Chávez.
Some other languages spoken in Venezuela are Carib, Guahibo, Warao, Wayuu, Pemon, and Piaroa.
Colombia is well known for its exquisite coffee, coal, emeralds.
It is also the biggest supplier of Plantains -LRB- a kind of banana used for cooking -RRB- to the United States.
Lingerie is also among the exports of Colombia.
There are a few armed conflicts in Colombia.
Most rebel groups finance their operation with the trade of illegal drugs.
noooooooooooo !
He was born in Groningen, Holland.
He went to Batavia -LRB- now called Jakarta -RRB- to work for the VOC in 1633.
He went back to Holland in 1636.
He went back to Batavia with his wife, Jannetie Tjaerss, 2 years later.
He went north to Japan in 1640.
In 1642 Tasman went south to Palembang.
Several places have been named after him, including Tasmania, the Tasman Peninsula, Tasman Island and the Tasman Sea.
The description on and licensing information is visible below.
A piece of a computer program is sometimes called a piece of code, or source code.
When a person writes in a programming language, it is said that they are `` writing code '' or that they are `` coding. ''
A programming language type of written language that tells computers what to do.
Programming languages are used to make all computer programs and computer software.
A programming language is like a set of instructions that the computer follows to do something.
A programmer writes source code text in the programming language to create programs.
Usually the programming language uses real words for some of the commands, so that the language is easier for a human to read when changing the source code.
Many programming languages use punctuation just like a normal language.
Most computer programs now are compiled, which means that the computer translates the source code into machine language, which is much faster easier for the computer to read, but much harder for a person to read.
Computer programs must be written very carefully.
If the programmer makes mistakes, or the program tries to do something the programmer did not write source code for, the program can do something wrong, or even `` crash '' and stop working.
When a program has a problem because of how the code was written, this is called a bug.
A very small mistake can cause a very big problem - forgetting a period or typing + instead of - can make the programming make mistakes or stop working.
Correct numbers -LRB- types of numers, and how large or small the numbers can go -RRB-
Limits on what the programming language can do
Most languages have official standards that define the rules of how to write the source code.
This program asks the user his or her age and responds based on what the user typed.
If the user typed something that is n't a number, the program says so.
If the user typed a number less than zero, the program says so.
If the user says he or she is older than 100 years old, the program says `` That 's old ! ''
If the user typed a correct age the program says back to the user how old he or she is.
A programming language is a type of written language that tells computers what to do.
The BASIC language is said to be easier to read than other languages.
It is a widely understood high-level programming language, written using simple English-like words and syntax.
It is an interpreted language, code can be run immediately after being written.
Having an interpreter makes it simpler to use, as there is no need for the computer to compile the code, possibly finding errors to fix, before the compiled version can be run.
exe file so that it will run on all modern Windows computers, whether VB is installed or not.
It will not run on operating systems other than Windows and on machines with non-Intel compatible processors.
HEADING Examples
PrivateSub Form_Load -LRB- -RRB-
MsgBox `` Hello, World ''
End Sub
The Earth is the only planet that we know has organisms.
Azerbaijan -LRB- -RRB-, or Republic of Azerbaijan, is a country in South Caucasus region of Eurasia.
It is next to Russia in the north, Georgia, Armenia, in the west, Iran in the south, and Caspian Sea on the east.
Azerbaijan also includes Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic, anenclave, which is next to Armenia to the north and east, Iran to the south and west, and Turkey to the northwest.
Most of Azerbaijan 's land is located in Western Asia and is called an Asian country by the United Nations.
However, because it is close and it 's history is related to Europe, Azerbaijan is also a member of a number of European groups, including the Council of Europe since 2001.
He was a Greek who probably lived and worked in Alexandria, in Egypt.
He described in his writing the Greek or geocentric view of the universe.
He also thought out and described the apparent motions of the planets as they were known in his time.
Ptolemy explained and extended Hipparchus 's system of epicycles and eccentric circles to explain his geocentric -LRB- Earth-centered -RRB- theory of the solar system.
He believed the planets and sun moved around the Earth in this order : Mercury, Venus, Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn.
It predicts the positions of the planets accurately enough for naked-eye observations, so it seemed accurate at the time.
This is described in his book Mathematical Syntaxis -LRB- widely called the Almagest -RRB-, a thirteen-book mathematical treatment of the phenomena of astronomy.
It contains a wide variety of information ranging from earth conceptions to sun, moon, and star movement as well as eclipses and an explanation of the length of months.
He was influential up to the 16th century when his ideas were disproved by Nicolaus Copernicus.
But he had Asia extending much too far east, which may have been a factor in Columbus 's decision to try to reach India by sailing west from Europe.
The Ptolemaic explanation of the motions of the planets remained the accepted wisdom until the Polish scholar Copernicus proposed a heliocentric view, or sun-centered view in 1543.
Although granted equal rights since 1994, 90 percent of the country 's poor people are non-white, and the situation has not improved since the days of apartheid.
In 1894, Dreyfus was accused of being a spy, and accused of crimes against France.
People thought he wrote secret letters to the Germans.
But the army did not want to admit that it had been wrong.
They refused to free him.
Finally, the evidence that Dreyfus was innocent became so strong that the government had to demand a new trial.
But at the new trial, the army again convicted him.
But the President of France, who did n't want an innocent man to suffer any more, pardoned Dreyfus in 1899.
Dreyfus was released.
Seven years later, he was officially declared innocent, and allowed back into the army.
Many of those who thought Dreyfus was a spy hated Jews and believed that he was a criminal because he was a Jew, and that a Jew could not be a good Frenchman ; this belief is called anti-Semitism.
Others thought that the army could not be questioned.
The other side believed that an innocent man should not be imprisoned, and feared that Dreyfus 's enemies were also enemies of the republic.
People thought he wrote letters to the Germans telling them about secrets of the French army.
Baseball is a sport you play with two teams.
In baseball, one team throws a small round ball you call a baseball and the other team treis to hit it.
Teams get points by running and touching markers on the ground called `` bases ''.
In many countries, most people like baseball more than any other sport.
In the United States, baseball is called the national pastime, because so many people in the United States spend a lot of time playing or watching the games.
Baseball is a sport played with two teams.
In baseball, one team throws a small round ball called a baseball and the other team tries to hit it.
Teams get points by running and touching markers on the ground called `` bases ''.
Some people call baseball hardball, because there is another sport called softball.
In many countries, most people like baseball more than any other sport.
In the United States, baseball is called the national pastime, because so many people in the United States spend a lot of time playing or watching the games.
More people go to United States Major League Baseball games than go to see all the other team sports.
But on TV, more people like to watch American football and car racing.
In American English, `` ballgame '' means baseball game, but there are many other ball games.
HEADING How to play baseball
HEADING In general
Each team has nine players.
There are also some people who watch everything carefully to decide what happened, and make sure everyone follows the rules.
The sides of the square are 90 feet -LRB- 27.4 metres -RRB- long.
The game is played in nine steps, called innings.
After nine innings, the team that has the most runs is the winner.
If the teams have the same number of runs, they play more innings until one team wins.
At the start of the game, the home team pitches, while players on the visiting team bat.
Only one player can bat at a time.
He must throw it close enough for the batter to hit.
If he does not, and the batter does not swing at it, the umpire will call `` ball ! ''
After `` ball four ! ''
the batter is allowed to `` walk '' to first base, so it is important to pitch well.
The batter stands near home plate and tries to hit the ball with a bat.
The batter must have a good aim with the bat.
His job is to hit the ball so the batting team can get some runs.
If he swings but does not hit the ball -LRB- even on a bad pitch -RRB- the umpire calls a `` strike ! ''
If he does not swing and the pitch is good, that is also a `` strike ''.
His job is to catch any ball that the batter does not hit.
The first baseman also tries to catch balls which the batter hits near first base, but this does not happen very often.
Because the first baseman does not usually need to catch well, teams often make their strongest hitter their first baseman.
So the center fielder does not need to be a great batter.
The first pitcher is called the starting pitcher ; the other pitchers are called the bullpen.
this called the `` break or off-speed '' pitch known as a cureball or change-up.
there are many types of break\/offspeed pitches, such as slurve, curve, slider, splitter, sinker, screw, 2-seam cut, 2-seam screw, knuckle, knuckle curve, change-up, circle change-up, plam ball and there are very many more.
Since the people began to have more leisure time baseball has been seen as the national pastime of America.
In the United States currently about 12 Million people play baseball.
HEADING Post-season
There is a special set of games called the World Series, where the champions of the American League and the National League play baseball to see who is the best team in baseball.
Firstbasemen need to have quick feet, stretch well, be quick and know how to catch wild throws.
There are also umpires, who watch everything carefully to decide what happened, and make sure everyone follows the rules.
The lines from home plate to first base and home plate to third base make the foul lines, and the ground outside of these lines is called foul territory.
A ball that is hit with a bat and flies in between the foul lines is a fair ball.
A fair ball must be picked up by the team on defense, and that lets the hitter start running on the bases.
A ball that is outside the foul lines is a foul ball, and may be caught in the air by the team on defense for an out, unless it hits the ground.
In Judaism, God is known by many names.
The most important of these names is the Tetragrammaton, or `` Four-lettered word '' : YHVH, YHWH, or &#1497; &#1492; &#1493; &#1492;.
Jews are not allowed to pronounce this name, and instead say Adonai.
Even Adonai is only said in prayer.
Most Jews would refer to God as Hashem, or `` The Name ''.
Jews are not allowed to erase the Tetragrammaton, so they rarely write it down outside of their most holy books, such as the Torah.
Other names include Elohim, El, Shaddai, Tzeavot, &#8216; Elyon, and Ehyeh-Asher-Ehyeh.
It played a big role in the war effort in the First and Second World Wars.
HEADING Famous people from Birmingham
Judas Priest, rock group
Ozzy Osbourne, singer -LRB- originally with Black Sabbath -RRB-
Birmingham tourism site
The American Civil War was fought between 1861 and 1865 in the United States of America -LRB- USA -RRB-.
The war was about states ' rights -LRB- states being able to do whatever they want -RRB- and slavery -LRB- when one person owns another person -RRB-.
The two sides fighting were states in the North -LRB- who were called ` The Union ' -RRB- who did not like slavery, and states in the South -LRB- who were called the ` Confederacy ' -RRB- who did not think the United States Constitution was written to make slavery illegal -LRB- so people could not own slaves -RRB- everywhere in the United States.
Some states wanted to make their own decision about slavery.
Other states wanted no-one to be able to decide, and just make all slavery illegal.
The South was hurt the most because most of the war was fought there.
The South 's economy was hurt very badly, too.
The Union Army stayed in some Southern states for many years.
This time is called `` Reconstruction ''.
The 14th Amendment made it clear that all people born in the United States are citizens and that their rights can not be taken away unless they do something illegal.
The 15th Amendment said that citizens can not be kept from voting because of their race.
-LRB- Citizens could be stopped from voting because of their gender, however.
It was not until the passing of the 19th Amendment in 1920 that women could vote. -RRB-
A series of constitutional amendments were made by the US government and passed with enough support from the people.
The 14th Amendment makes it clear that all people born in the United States are citizens with equal rights that can not be taken away unless they do something illegal.
The 15th Amendment says that citizens can not be kept from voting because of their race.
-LRB- It was not until the passing of the 19th Amendment in 1920 that women could vote. -RRB-
The American Civil War was a war fought from 1861 to 1865 between northern and southern United States of America -LRB- USA -RRB-.
In the South, many people were slaves -LRB- people who were owned by other people -RRB-.
Much of the work on big farms was done by these slaves.
These states were called `` free states ''.
States where the law said someone could own slaves were called `` slave states ''.
Also, a large part of land belonging to the United States in the west was not yet divided into states.
This land was divided into territories and there were few non-Native American that lived there.
Unlike the states, the territories did not help decide who became president and did not send people to Washington D.C. to make laws for the whole country.
More and more white people moved into the territories, and everyone agreed that one day all the territories should be organized into states.
People in the free states wanted these new states to be free states, too.
In the South, people thought they should be slave states.
Abraham Lincoln was from the North, and when he ran for President he said that any territory that wanted to become a new state should not be a slave state.
People in the South who owned slaves were afraid of people who said they wanted to make it a crime to own slaves in all parts of the United States.
An example of killings before the war is a series of events called `` Bleeding Kansas '', which was a result of the Kansas-Nebraska Act of 1854.
Another thing that led to bad feelings between the North and South was the fact that life was very different in the North than in the South.
Many people in the North lived in cities and worked in factories.
They wanted policies and laws that helped their economy.
Most people in the South lived in small towns and worked on farms, and wanted policies that helped their economy.
Because of these differences, they often could not agree on which policies were best.
When Lincoln won the election to become the new President, many of the slave states decided to leave the United States of America, and ended up forming a new country, the Confederate States of America, with a capital in Richmond, Virginia.
HEADING The war
There were two important areas where the American Civil War was fought - in the west and in the east.
In the eastern area, there was the US capital, Washington D.C., and the Confederate capital, Richmond.
Ulysses S. Grant -LRB- who later became US President -RRB- won many battles here.
On the 4th of July, 1863, following a long siege, Vicksburg surrendered to Grant.
The invasion was stopped by the Union, and Lee and the Confederate Union were made to go back to the South.
He put Grant in control of all the Union armies.
HEADING Other websites
Time Line of The American Civil War
A group of states in the southern United States -LRB- `` the South, '' also called `` the Confederacy '' -RRB- wanted to be independent, while the federal government and the states in the northern United States -LRB- `` the North, '' also called `` the Union '' -RRB- wanted to keep the US as one country.
The North won the war.
There were many causes of the Civil War, and some started long ago in the first American colonies.
One big issue was states ' rights, while another was slavery.
The American Civil War was fought from 1861 to 1865 in the United States.
Eleven southern slave states joined together as the Confederate States of America -LRB- CSA -RRB- and fought for their independence from the United States.
They fought against `` the Union '', which was the U.S. federal government supported by all the states that did not declare their independence.
The Union states -LRB- sometimes called `` the North '' -RRB- were all those in which slavery was not legal -LRB- most of which were in `` the North '' -RRB- and five states in which slavery was legal -LRB- the `` border states '' -RRB-.
The United States did not recognize the Confederate claims of independence, nor did any other nation.
Fighting started when the Confederates bombarded a Union fort within the territory claimed by the Confederacy.
The war was fought mostly in the South, and was one of the deadliest in U.S. history.
The Union won the war, resulting in the end of slavery in the United States.
The CSA fought against `` the Union '', which was the U.S. federal government supported by all the states that did not declare their independence.
Tutankhamun was Pharaoh -LRB- like a king -RRB- of Ancient Egypt from about 1334 BC to 1323 BC.
Tutankhamun is famous as the only pharaoh to have his tomb found with nearly everything he was buried with.
Others believe that his vizier, Ay, murdered him as he had the chance and wanted to, because Ay also succeeded him as Pharoah.
When his mummy was examined by a CAT scan in January 2005, a very bad break in the leg was found.
This was probably from a riding accident.
Most scientists now think that Tutankhamun died because his broken leg got infected.
Others believe that his vizier, Ay, murdered him when he had the chance and wanted to, because Ay also succeeded him as Pharaoh.
tomb and Ay in his.
Sometimes countries get their indepencence in a war, like the American War of Independence or the countries of former Yugoslavia, and sometimes countries get their independence peacefully.
Its official name is the Republic of Panama, and it is most famous for the Panama Canal.
The Spanish language is one of theRomance language that came from the Latin language.
It is the most common Romance language.
The Spanish language is one of the Romance languages that derived from the Latin language.
Karaite Judaism is a kind of Judaism that accepts only the Bible as authorative, and rejects the Mishnah and Talmud, which are explanations of the Bible by rabbis in the first few centuries of the Common Era.
Karaite Jews believe that each person should be able to explain the Torah for themselves, instead of following the explanations of the rabbis.
The Tanakh, which is the Jewish version of the Old Testament, is a book of truth
HEADING External links
Diamonds are actually made of the same element carbon as graphite, fullerene, and coal.
Diamonds are made deep in the earth where there is a lot of pressure and heat which make the diamond form.
Thanksgiving is a holiday in the USA when people give thanks.
It is celebrated on the fourth Thursday of November.
Americans usually eat turkey on this day.
The Pilgrims were early settlers on the east coast of North America.
They had to work hard to find or grow their own food.
At harvest time in autumn, the Pilgrims were very thankful that they had a good crop of food to eat during the coming winter.
They thanked God and they also thanked the native Americans for helping them learn how to grow food.
So they invited their two key Indian helpers, Squanto, Samoset, plus Chief Massasoit, to share in their Thanksgiving feast.
The Pilgrims were overwhelmed, and didn t have enough food, so the Indians brought along their own supplies for the feast.
The Wampanoags brought turkey, deer, berries, squash, cornbread, and beans -- things that they 'd farmed and that they 'd shown the Pilgrims how to care for.
The first official Thanksgiving had nothing to do with Pilgrims or Indians sharing meals.
For thirty years, she promoted the idea of a national Thanksgiving Day, contacting President after President, until President Abraham Lincoln responded in 1863 by setting aside the last Thursday of November as a national Day of Thanksgiving.
Then in 1941, Congress permanently established the fourth Thursday of each November as a national holiday.
He was the first European man who saw Prince Edward Island, St. Lawrence River and who reached Montreal where the Iroquois lived in those days.
Cartier captured and took the sons of the Wendat chief, Donnacona, with him to France on his first trip.
On his second trip, he brought them back, but captured chief Donnacona himself and took him to France, where he soon died.
On his third trip, he tried to plant a French colony on Wendat lands.
But because of his trips, the French still said they could make the eastern part of Canada their colony later on.
Micheal Jackson was a gay European that dreamed of eating socks.
So he set off to find socks when he gay sister Julie said `` HEY THERE ARE SOME NICE GAYS FROM DOWN THE STREET LETS GO ''
Iodised salt -LRB- also spelled `` iodized salt '' -RRB- is table salt mixed with tiny amounts of iodine and is used to prevent disease of the thyroid gland.
Food crops usually get iodine from the soil, but some places around the world have low amounts of iodine.
With the right knife, the cuts you want to make will happen faster and easier.
With the wrong kind of knife, it will take more work to do the same amount of cuts.
Nyngan is a town 160 kilometres north West of Dubbo, and 190 kilometres South east of Bourke in the Central West Plains of New South Wales in Australia.
It exists because of the people who work on the farms and in a copper mine, 50 kilometres to the West.
It remains also well known as one of the last depots of Cobb and Co, the famous inland transporter of the 19th century -LRB- 1801 to 1900 -RRB-.
One of the overnight depots was at Nyngan becuase it is about half way between Dubbo and Bourke.
In the days of Cobb and Co, the trip from Dubbo and Bourke would have taken at least 4 days.
However, the route they took is not the route that is used today.
The new route runs beside the railway.
The railway is a direct line from Dubbo to Nyngan.
There is not a single bend for almost 160 kilometres.
In the other direction, the track goes 190 kilometres dead straight the whole way to Bourke.
Reinforced concrete buildings can be made to link all the parts together, the foundations, walls, floors and roofs, but concrete construction does not make buildings earthquake-proof.
Voltaire, a French philosopher, once joked that the empire was neither holy, nor Roman, nor an empire.
Latin has eight different noun cases, but only five are unique : Nominative, Genitive, Dative, Accusative, and Ablative.
Latin has a almost the same structure as Ancient Greek, but it uses a separate alphabet.
Latin has almost the same structure as Ancient Greek, but it uses a separate alphabet.
Latin has almost the same structure as Ancient Greek.
It uses a different alphabet, though.
HEADING all lies I tell you all lies !
HEADING Headline text -- ~ ~ ~ ~ Insert non-formatted text hereStrike-through text
ive different ways.
When a noun is declined, ten forms are made, two for each of the noun cases.
People in the Roman Catholic Church sometimes use Latin for communication -LRB- if they have different mother tongues -RRB- and sometimes in ceremonies.
There are several cases, e.g. nominative, accusative, ablative, genitive, vocative etc.
1st declension has the endings :
singular plural
- a - ae
- am - as
s. pl.
During the Middle Ages trade between countries become much bigger.
It was mostly through the Middle Eastern \/ Asian trade known as the Silk Road.
, and items that were heavier and worth less would travel mostly short distances.
Food, for example, would mostly travel only within a few villages -RRB-.
Silk, porcelain, spices, incense, gold and gems, all traveled thousands of miles across long stretches of deserts, mountains and plains.
Viktor Andriyovych Yushchenko -LRB- -RRB- -LRB- born February 23, 1954 -RRB- is the President of Ukraine.
They argued that the election results had been falsified by the Ukranian government, in support of the opposing candidate Victor Yanukovych.
Salts exist in all different colors, such as yellow -LRB- sodium chromate -RRB-, orange -LRB- potassium dichromate -RRB-, red -LRB- mercury sulfide -RRB-, mauve -LRB- cobalt chloride hexahydrate -RRB-, blue -LRB- copper sulfate pentahydrate, ferric hexacyanoferrate -RRB-, green -LRB- nickel oxide -RRB-, colorless -LRB- magnesium sulfate -RRB-, white -LRB- titanium dioxide -RRB-, and black -LRB- manganese dioxide -RRB-.
It is one of the few minerals that are eaten a lot by humans, but it can be used for other things besides giving food its flavor.
A business is a method of organizing work, where one or more offer to sell goods or services to other people, for more money than it costs them to make or give it.
The days become shorter and the nights become longer.
Some animals hibernate during this season.
Some methods, such as crucifixion and flaying are are no longer used by governments, because people think that these methods of killing are too cruel.
Lethal injection : The prisoner is poisoned with a mix of chemicals that are injected into their body.
Some countries use chemicals that cause controversy.
One or more of those firing may have false ammunition that does not kill.
Hanging : The prisoner has a rope tied around their neck.
They are then dropped from a height.
They die because their neck is broken or through asphyxiation, if the knot was poorly made.
Opponents of the death penalty protest outside prisons where criminals are being killed.
Over half the countries in the world have gotten rid of the death penalty in law and practice : 75 countries have gotten rid of the capital punishment for all crimes and another 20 can be considered abolitionist in practice.
Other countries especially ones with Authoritarian or Totalitarian governments, however, also use it for smaller crimes like theft, or for saying bad things about the government.
One side says the death penalty is good because it scares people away from doing things that could get them killed, the other side says there 's a potential of executing an innocent man ; one says justice, retribution, and punishment ; the other side says that execution is murder.
The gas chamber was found unconstitutional in the United States -LRB- that is : against the US constitution not allowing `` cruel and unusual punishments '' -RRB- and is no longer used.
Electric chair : The prisoner is killed by a strong source of electricity attached to their head and leg.
Lethal injection : The prisoner is poisoned with a mix of chemicals that are put into their body.
Mining is the process of taking things from the ground.
Be serious and do not touch the condom with a sharp instrument such as a sharp fingernail.
Air pockets can break the condom.
Have a great time.
When a condom does not work properly, this is because it is not used properly, in most cases.
Some people said that sex-education should be different for the different age groups.
You need to talk to the 12-14 year olds in a different manner than you need to talk to the 10-12 year olds.
Some people, did a study that showed, that condoms do break very rarely.
They also slip off very rarely.
http://www.fhi.org/en/RH/Pubs/factsheets/breakslip.htm.
The Wordl Health Organisation says that condoms work the way they should in 97 out of a 100 cases.
http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs243/en/.
The studdy looked at people who always used conddoms for a year.
Something else that can cause a condom to not work as it should, is sabotage.
This is when one of the partners wants a baby, but the other one does not.
Usually they pierce a condom with a sharp object, making the condom useless.
Some people see it as not ethical, because one of the two sex parners does it without the other one 's knowledge.
There are websites that show how to do it, if the woman wants a baby, but the man does not.
HEADING Arguments by religious comminities
Several religious communities -LRB- like Catholic Christians, Muslims, and some of the Protestant Christians -RRB- see problems if condoms are used :
They say there is a difference in havingf sex for making babies, and having sex for fun -LRB- to make the relationship between the partners stronger.
They say that using a condom to prevent a pregancy is bad.
Rather than using a condom natural methods should be used to prevent pregancy.
Such methods include to choose the time of the month carefully.
Other communities are not as strict, and only look at the result.
They leave it to those invovled to choose the correct means.
Some people say the use of condom is against Nature -LRB- unnatural -RRB-.
As well as male condom they increase protection for partners from pregnancy and STD 's.
Female condoms look like a sheath with a flexible ring on both sides of this sheath.
With these rings the condom is attached to the vagina.
It covers the vagina and cervix to prevent sperm from getting inside the woman 's urethra.
It is necessary to know that female and male condom should not be used at the same time.
4.7 million people (2002) live in St. Petersburg today, and it is the second biggest city in Russia.
Saint Petersburg was f by the Russian Tsar, Peter I as the capital of the Russian Empire in 1703 inspite of the former capital Moscow.
During the World War I people thought the name Sankt Peterburg was too German and.
Tsar Nicholas II on August 31 -LRB- August 18, Old Style -RRB-, 1914 decided that the city was renamed Petrograd.
Saint Petersburg, retuned to its old name on September 6, 1991, when Russia stopped being communist.
Sant Petersburg was a beautiful city planned by Peter I. There many man made rivers -LRB- or canals -RRB- in the city and so the city is sometimes called the Venice of the North.
There are also beautiful building built by Russian emperors
The historical city center is on the UNESCO list of world heritage sites.
Those famous buildings include the Hermitage Museum and the Winter Palace.
During the World War II the city was surrounded by the German army for twenty-nine months.
It also does not react to water easily, so it can be used for pipes.
When copper reacts with air, it turns a green color.
The Statue of Liberty is made out of copper that has reacted with the air.
The comic book was one of the first to combine social issues and commentary into a superhero story, set in a world where people with mutant abilites are hated by those born without them.
This is similar to acts of racism seen throughout history.
John was co-captain of the football team in high school as well as homecoming king in his senior year.
Ziggy Stardust was an alter ego from David Bowie
Marilyn Manson is the stage name of Brian Warner
Michael Schumacher -LRB- born 3 January 1969 in Hürth, near Cologne -RRB- is a German race car driver who comes from Kerpen.
Many people think Schumacher is one of the best race drivers in the world.
He has won seven world championship titles and has more Grand Prix victories than anyone else, so he is also the most successful Formula 1 driver of racing history.
Michael 's younger brother Ralf is also a Formula 1 driver.
Some people think Schumacher is one of the best race drivers in the world.
The Axis countries is a name for some countries that were friends during World War II.
They were evil dictatorships.
Countries that were not official Axis countries, but helped the Axis and fought at their side :
Puppet countries that were made by the Axis :
The equator is an line which is not real drawn around a planet, such as Earth.
It is one of the lines known as a line of latitude.
The equator is halfway between the North Pole and the South Pole.
A rocket is a vehicle, missile or aircraft - manned -LRB- e.g. Saturn V -RRB- ; or unmanned -LRB- e.g. Phoenix air-to-air missile -RRB-.
-LRB- `` Manned '' means that a person can make the machine go ; `` unmanned '' means that the machine can go without a person working the machine. -RRB-
It can rise because exhaust thrust from the engine is bigger than the weight of the vehicle in relation to its weight on earth.
In defense uses rockets are limited by the same aerodynamic limitations\/conditions as other flying machines within the earth 's atmosphere.
Unmanned rockets however are not bound by the gravitational limits of human operators.
Generally, rockets go faster than the speed of sound -LRB- Mach 1 -RRB- and may reach speeds of up to Mach 5 -LRB- atmospheric -RRB- or far greater - up to 30 ' 000km\/hr in LEO -LRB- low Earth Orbit -RRB-.
Rockets do not use atmospheric oxygen like jets\/airliners use, but they need self-contained propulsives which allow it\/them to operate beyond the limits of earth 's atmosphere.
Unmanned rockets however are not bound by the limits of humans.
Rockets go faster than the speed of sound -LRB- Mach 1 -RRB- and may reach speeds of up to Mach 5 and even up to 30 ' 000 km\/hr when in Orbit.
MacGyver, a reference to someone who is able to perform amazing feats with the use of very few and often irrelevant objects.
A polygon with one side and one vertex.
Looks like a straight line -LRB- but impossible to do, since both sides overlap -RRB-.
Klein bottle Same as a Möbius strip, but in four dimensions.
HEADING Introduction
Leet, l33t, or 1337, is a term in common usage by the online computer gaming community, being most popular with players of online multiplayer FPS games.
A contracted form of the word `` elite '', it is used to imply superiority or excellence.
It can also be written as `` 1337 '', with a the numbers 1, 3 and 7 standing for L, E and T respectively.
There is also a vulgar language form which uses elements of this numerical spelling system together with a vocabulary derived from English.
Referred to by some as `` leet speak '' or leet-speek '' it is predominantly perpetuated by English language users, but also by other language users in the same or similar social groups, including French, Spanish and German.
Its vocabulary is a mixture of terms originating from -LRB- computer -RRB- gaming culture and English words anagramatically mispelled to mimick the mistakes of someone unfamiliar with the use of a computer typing keyboard.
While many of these words are unique game-specific terms, some have relevance on a wider scale and can be used as synonyms for existing terms for everyday usage.
Because of this fact many of these terms have been popularized by internet forum, chatroom and game users, however they are not neologisms which have been added to the general vocabulary of internet users, the terms of leet-speek are usually combined -LRB- together with deliberately incorrect word order and word mispelling -RRB- to create a sort of ` dialect '.
This dialect is used in certain situations for mockery, farce, exaggeration or to feign stupidity.
HEADING Numerical substitution
One of the main characteristics of `` leet-speek '' is the frequent use of numbers to replace letters.
Some words have numerical replacements in their standard form.
2 -- Z -LRB- not in common usage -RRB-
3 -- E
4 -- A
5 -- S
6 -- G -LRB- not in common usage -RRB-
7 -- T
8 -- B
9 -- G
0 -- O -LRB- Occasionally represented by '' -LRB- -LRB- -RRB- -RRB- '' -RRB-
HEADING Intentional Mispelling
Certain words are deliberately mispelled while writing in `` leet ''.
This is thought to originate from the mockery of less experienced typers, who often make errors in their writing.
caek -- `` cake ''
OLO -- `` LOL ''
pai -- `` pie ''
pr0n -- `` porn ''
pwn -- `` 0wn ''
teh -- `` the ''
HEADING `` leet '' Vocabulary and Noun Morphology
kewl -- `` cool ''
newb -- `` new '' -LRB- n -RRB- thought to originate from new boy, or new blood
n00b -- `` new '' -LRB- n -RRB- new -LRB- player -RRB-, used more often as a term of mockery
0wn -- `` own '' -LRB- v -RRB- to be superior to ; -LRB- n -RRB- best, superior -LRB- alt.
spelling : `` pwn '' -RRB-
rox0r -- `` rock '' -LRB- v -RRB- to be amazing ; -LRB- n -RRB- excellent, amazing
teh -- `` the ''
HEADING Irregular Syntax and Grammar
It is very seldom that examples of leet will follow the rules of the English language.
Deliberate care is taken to write it in a particular style, following an undefined set of guidelines whose purpose it is to contradict the standard and accepted writing forms of the English language.
`` l33t is teh suck ! ''
-LRB- meaning : ` leet sucks ' -RRB- is an example of how a sentence can be formulated in leet-speek to follow its trends while ignoring, to a degree, those of its parent language.
HEADING l33t sp33k
The vocabulary of `` leet speek '' or `` leet '' is a mixture of terms originating from -LRB- computer -RRB- gaming culture and English words anagramatically mispelled to mimick the mistakes of someone unfamiliar with the use of a computer typing keyboard.
HEADING Numerical Substitution
In addition some other typing symbols are used to create a small number of letters that give a unique visual style.
As a result of the few available letters in this style, there are few resulting word combinations and the method is only used to emphasize key words.
This style of script is not part of l33t, more an off-shoot of it and due to its lack of vocabulary and resulting lack of application as a substitute for more general language use it is yet to be given a name to identify it.
O -- -LRB- -LRB- -RRB- -RRB-
P -- -RRB- D
This is thought to originate from the mockery of less experienced typers, who often make errors in their writing, and is increasingly used to mimic newcomers to a group in order to highlight the fact that something is disliked, or is found amusing due to its `` n00b '' - like nature.
an -- `` and ''
d00d -- `` dude ''
form -- `` from ''
h4x -- `` hacks '' -LRB- see Vocabulary entry : `` hax '' -RRB-
j00 -- `` you ''
kewl -- `` cool ''
liek -- `` like ''
mastah -- `` master ''
max0r -- `` max. ''
or `` maximum ''
OGM -- `` OMG ''
phear -- `` fear ''
powwah -- `` power ''
t3h -- `` the '' -LRB- see Vocabulary entry : `` teh '' -RRB-
sechs -- `` sex ''
wen -- `` when ''
whut -- `` what ''
winnar -- `` winner ''
yuo -- `` you ''
HEADING l33t Vocabulary
ftw, 4tw -- `` for the win '', in order for something to be successful, or well received
hax, h4x -- `` hacks ''
haxor, hax0r, h4x0r, hacksaw -- `` hacker '', cheater
joo, j00 -- `` you '' -LRB- often mistakenly interpreted as a derogatory term for a Jew -RRB-
meh -- n1 `` me '' ; n2 `` oh well '', used as an indicator of undecidedness, unworriedness or often as a sign that the user has nothing to say
newbie, newb -- `` new '', newcomer or new player.
Thought to originate from `` new boy '', or `` new-blood ''
noob, n00b, n00b13, nub, nubbins -- `` new '' or new -LRB- player -RRB-, used more often as a derogatory term for the purpose of mockery or ridicule.
own, 0wn, pwn -- `` own '' v to be superior to ; n1 superior ; n2 best
phear, ph34r, ph33r -- `` fear ''
rox0r -- `` rock '' v to be amazing ; n excellent, amazing
secks, sechs -- `` sex ''
teh, t3h -- `` the ''
woot, w00t -- n1 `` woohoo '' ; n2 `` what '' -LRB- in question form -RRB- ; n3 `` We 0wn -LRB- the -RRB- Other Team '', it is thought that this is the true origin of the expression, being used at the end of a match to indicate that your team had dominated the opposition.
It has come to be used primarily as an expression of celebration.
It is very seldom that examples of l33t will follow the rules of the English language.
A short form of the word `` elite '', it is used to imply being better than other people.
Leet, l33t, or 1337, is a word used by the computer game players.
A short form of the word `` elite '' -LRB- great -RRB-, it means being better than other people.
There is also a language which uses parts of this number spelling with words based on English.
Called `` leet speak '' or `` leet-speek '' it is used by English language users, but also by other language users including French, Spanish and German.
The words of leet speak are a mixture of words coming from -LRB- computer -RRB- gaming and English words spelled wrong like the mistakes of someone not knowing the use of a keyboard.
Many of these words are unique game words, some are important on a bigger scale and replace everyday words.
Many of these words are popular from internet communication.
They are not new words that have been added to the vocabulary of many people, the words of leet speak are usually put together to create a ` dialect ' -LRB- small language -RRB-.
This dialect is used in some places for humor.
HEADING Numbers for letters
One of the qualities of leet speak is using numbers to replace letters.
Many words have numbers leet speak.
0 -- O -LRB- Occasionally represented by '' -LRB- -RRB- '' -RRB-
Also other typing symbols are used to make letters that give another style.
Often adjectives -LRB- describing words -RRB- are turned into nouns using copula -LRB- to be -RRB- verbs, as in the previous example.
The modifier `` teh '' is also often inserted in front of verbs, as in `` I teh pwnd j00 '' -LRB- literally i the pawned you, meaning : I beat you badly -RRB-.
m8 : mate -LRB- meaning like... friend -RRB-
The modifier `` teh '' is also often inserted in front of verbs, as in `` I teh pwnd j00 '' -LRB- literally i the owned you, meaning : I beat you badly -RRB-.
no u have a sandy vagina
noob, n00b, n00b13, nooblet, nub, newb, nubbins -- `` new '' or new -LRB- player -RRB-, used more often as a derogatory term for the purpose of mockery or ridicule.
wft -- `` wtf '', what the f \*\*\*
1one -- `` shut the f \*\*\* up '' or `` stupid f \*\*\* er ''
The more common use is when an experienced player tries to rip someone off or offers up nooby items for more valuable items in trades, or is cheating or doing something that only a noob should do -LRB- i.e. asking for coins, bragging about low-level armor, in RS, level 3s that bother u asking to be your `` gf '' or `` bf '' -RRB-
Many of these words are special game words, some are important on a bigger scale and replace everyday words.
Note : Most of the time it is only the vowels that are changed and then usually only they are replaced by letters, it is uncommon to see someone use the Leet Alphabet exclusivley
J : usually the J is not changed.
This `` language '' is not part of l33t, and was made after as a different way to write.
However, this way to write is not used a lot by people.
A lot of the time it is used together with leet to make the meaning of a word stronger and to show lots of feeling.
They might do this to laugh at new people who do not write words with their keyboards well.
c3n50r5ed -- `` censored ''
A lot of times adjectives -LRB- describing words -RRB- are turned into nouns using copula verbs -LRB- examples : is, was, will be -RRB-.
The leet word `` teh '' -LRB- the -RRB- is also often placed in front of verbs, as in `` I teh pwnd j00 '' -LRB- meaning i the owned you, meaning : I beat you badly -RRB-.
Leet is a word often used on the Internet, some being internet games, writing boards, and chatting rooms.
It comes from the word `` elite '' meaning `` better than everyone else ''.
Lots of the time it is written like `` 1337 '' or `` l33t ''.
It can also be written in other ways, the numbers 1, 3 and 7 standing for L, E and T. It has turned into an Internet language which uses parts of this number spelling with words based on English.
Called `` leet speak '' or `` 1337-sp33k '' it is used by English speakers, but also by other language users including French, Spanish and German.
The words of leet speak are a combination of words coming from -LRB- computer -RRB- gaming and English words spelt wrong like the mistakes of someone not knowing the use of a keyboard.
Many of these words are special words, some are important on a bigger scale and replace everyday words.
This dialect is used in some places for funniness.
Because some words are too long for use in games they have been written how they sound.
another example might be I 4m t3h pwnage !
11 -LRB- meaning I am the best ! -RRB-
Superscript text = = = Wrong grammar = = =
olo olo lol
Leet is mostly used for English, but can also be used with other languages including French, Spanish and German.
Other people lived there before around 650 AD.
Nobody knows why they did that, but some think it was because they were scared of the Spanish.
Nobody knew it was there until a man called Hiram Bingham found it in 1911.
Mac OS X is like Unix but many people think it is prettier.
Some people do not like Mac OS X because they say it needs a powerful computer to run well and they think it should run on most computers like Windows and Linux do.
Unlike most personal computer companies, which sell products designed to run Microsoft Windows or Linux, Apple 's computer hardware runs software designed to only run on their products, usually with an operating system they have written for their products called Mac OS X. Some people believe this way of closely joining software with hardware make Apple products easier to use and more reliable.
Others feel that all computers should work the same, even if they are harder to use and less reliable, and criticise Apple designers for their creative ideas.
They also sell a popular line of mobile music players named `` iPod '' and has begun selling the `` iPhone '', a cell phone with a built-in iPod and other features.
Unlike most personal computer companies, which sell products made to run Microsoft Windows or Linux, Apple 's computer hardware runs software designed to only run on their products, usually with an operating system they have written for their products called Mac OS X. Some people think this way of making software and hardware together make Apple products easier to use and more reliable.
Most computer users in the world use Microsoft Windows, the rival to Mac OS X. About 12% of computer users use Apple 's Macintosh computers.
Apple 's new operation system, called Leopard, was going to be released in early 2007, but the date has recently been put back to the fall because Apple was concentrating on their newest products, the iPhone and Apple TV.
It can connect wirelessly to a computer that has iTunes and plays music, photos, and videos from iTunes on your TV.
It 's main feature is a wide touchscreen that covers almost the whole phone.
The iPhone comes in 4 or 8 gigabyte versions and runs a special version of Mac OS X. The 4 gigabyte version is not for sale anymore though.
Apple was created in 1976 by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak.
Before they made the company, they sold `` blue boxes '', which had telephone buttons on them.
iPod Shuffle 1 GB - This model has no screen and is very small.
It is the cheapest iPod available.
It has only basic music playback functions.
An iPod Shuffle can hold about 240 songs.
iPod nano 4 GB - comes in silver.
It can hold about 1,000 songs.
iPod nano 8 GB - comes in silver, green, blue, red, black, and pink.
It can hold about 2,000 songs.
iPod Classic 80 GB - comes in black or silver.
It can hold about 20,000 songs.
iPod Classic 160 GB - This model can hold about 40,000 songs.
iPod Touch 8 GB - has a touch screen and looks much like the iPhone.
It can hold about 2,000 songs.
iPod Touch 16 GB - This model can hold about 4,000 songs.
iPod Touch 32 GB - This model can hold about 8,000 songs.
This means that ten dollars from each purchase of these iPods goes to help fight AIDS in Africa.
One of the most popular products made by Apple is the iPod.
Apple sells their products all around the world.
3-D -LRB- or 3D -RRB- means three dimensional, or having three dimensions.
3D is also used to make video games or animated movies.
It needs a lot of calculus in order to display on a 2 dimensional screen models in 3 dimensions.
It needs a lot of calculus in order to display models in 3 dimensions on a 2 dimensional screen.
It needs a lot of calculations in order to display models in 3 dimensions on a 2 dimensional screen.
Quantum mechanics is hard to learn.
It causes things to happen that do n't usually happen, usually with very small things.
Quantum mechanics says that stuff only happens because of chance.
Quantum mechanics is very important in physics.
Quantum mechanics explains how extremely small particles behave - like atoms and molecules and sub-atomic particles like protons, electrons, neutrons.
Some ideas in quantum mechanics can be used to understand how small particles like the hydrogen atom combine to form large objects like the stars in the sky, and even the whole Universe.
Probability can help a scientist predict the outcome of an experiment, like trying to guess the outcome of a game.
Like trying to guess head or tail when tossing a coin.
Some parts of the theory are ; they are not in agreement with other views in Physics.
Physicists depend on the probability of an event, the result of an experiment, -LRB- what are the chances of it happening -RRB- instead of being sure about the outcome -LRB- what is going to happen -RCB-.
Physics tells us that there are four main forces of nature, and QM helps us understand three of those forces.
The main force that QM does not -LRB- yet -RRB- help us understand is gravity.
It explains how certain very small things -LRB- like atoms, or your brain -RRB- behave.
Later, we began calling ` quanta ' the ` packets ' light travels in.
Physicists are not sure what some of the equations of QM tell us about the real world.
HEADING Why QM is hard to learn
The well has zero potential energy inside a range and is infinite everywhere outside that range.
So quantum mechanics is not a complete theory of physics.
Light energy turns out to be related in an important way to light frequency, so that means that there can only be certain frequencies of light.
Then a Swedish mathematician named Johann Balmer figured out an equation that told what -LRB- lambda, for wave lengh -RRB- would be :
Infrared photons are sometimes called `` black light '' because humans can not see infrared light.
But humans can feel the radiation, for instance when walking by a brick building that has been heated by the sun.
Humans can not see or feel ultraviolet light.
They may only know they have been exposed to ultraviolet light when they get a sunburn.
QM explains how some very small things, smaller than the size of atoms, behave.
QM uses mathematics ; much of it is very hard mathematics.
Quantum is a Latin word which means ` how much '.
The more of these units, called photons, are given off per second, the brighter, or more intense, the light.
But that is not all ; Color -LRB- wavelength or frequency -RRB- also matters.
If the color of the light is ultraviolet -LRB- higher in frequency than violet light -RRB-, then each photon delivers a great deal of energy ; enough to hurt skin cells and cause a sunburn.
X-rays can go deep into the human body and do things like destroy cancer cells.
It followed from the older ideas that the electron would have to fall in to the center of the atom because it starts out being kept in orbit by its own energy, but it would quickly lose its energy as it revolves in its orbit.
This equation only worked for the visible light from hydrogen lamp.
Putting in different numbers for m and n, it is easy to predict frequencies from the ultraviolet through the visible and the infrared.
Werner Heisenberg took on the job of explaining the brightness or `` intensity '' of each line.
He could not use any simple rule like the one Balmer had come up with.
Classical physics already had answers for the brightness of the bands of color that a hydrogen lamp produces, but the classical theory said that there should be a continuous rainbow, and not four separate color bands.
Heisenberg 's explanation is :
But to do that he had to multiply two amplitudes -LRB- how high a wave measures -RRB- to work out the intensity.
In Finland the inhabitants of Kuopio have a special reputation : they are known as happy and funny people.
A hammer is a tool for putting nails into objects such as wood.
It has a long handle, and a tip with a flat end for hitting nails.
The most common type of hammer -LRB- sometimes called a claw hammer -RRB- has a curved end -LRB- on the other side of the hitting end -RRB- for pulling nails out.
Heavy hammers to hit other things, sometimes to break them apart, are often called sledgehammers.
Like many tools, hammers are sometimes used as weapons.
Some feces are also used as a fuel for cookery.
Feces are known for their unpleasant odor and brown color.
Feces are used by some scientists to follow tiger.
Informal : `` Poop ''
Informal : `` Poop '' or `` poo ''
The Catholic Church was started by Constantine who, merged pagan and Christian beliefs with political hierarchy and produced a diluted spiritual leadership.
The organization of the Church was agreed in 325 at the First Council of Nicæa.
It said the Church had five Patriarchs -LRB- patriarch also means a kind of father -RRB-.
They were the archbishops of Rome, Alexandria, Ephesus, and Antioch, each in charge of one fourth of the Christian world, with the Archbishop of Jerusalem at the center, as a fifth Patriarch.
The Patriarch of Rome, or `` Pope '', was honored as `` First among equals '' because the diocese of Rome was started by Saint Peter.
The third Patriarch later moved from Ephesus to Constantinople.
The next big schism was the Protestant Reformation, which protested against the central authority of the Church in Rome and against what it thought were wrong ways of doing and believing things about God in the Catholic Church.
Because of politics in Europe, many nations supported Luther.
Later, under his son, King Edward VI, and his daughter, Queen Elizabeth I, the Anglican Church became more reformed or Protestant, but Anglicans still believe they are reformed Catholics, as well as Protestants.
Some of these Protestant or Reformed churches are : Lutheran, Anglican, Presbyterian, Calvinist, Methodist, Baptist, to name just a few.
Later on, some people split again to make new kinds of churches which most Protestants do not believe are Christian at all, like Mormons, Jehovah 's Witnesses, Unitarian Universalist, and many others.
The Ten Commandments are the same -LRB- but numbered differently -RRB-
Catholics believe God can forgive sins through the sacrament of reconciliation -LRB- penance -RRB- done by a priest, while most Protestants do not believe the priest is needed
Catholics believe that papal authority and the Bible are infallible, while most Protestants believe in an Infallible Bible but not an infallible Pope.
Catholic bibles include the apocrypha whereas Protestant bibles do not.
That is why the pope is also called the Holy Father.
The council said the Church had five patriarchs -LRB- patriarch also means a kind of father -RRB-.
They were the archbishops of Rome, Alexandria, Ephesus, and Antioch, each in charge of one fourth of the Christian world, with the Archbishop of Jerusalem at the center, as a fifth patriarch.
The Patriarch of Rome, or `` Pope '', was honored as `` first among equals '' because the diocese of Rome was started by Saint Peter.
The third patriarch later moved from Ephesus to Constantinople.
In time, the Church split apart with fights over who is right ; these fights caused breaks in the Church called schisms.
Of course, these three patriarchs did not accept being excommunicated either, so the Churches under them are still known today as Oriental Orthodox Churches.
This left only one other patriarch -LRB- Constantinople -RRB- in communion with Rome.
The Roman Catholic Church kept the idea of one united church with the pope as head.
Some Orthodox Churches believe the emperor or king is the head of the Church as well as the country.
In England, the Anglican Church is like the Orthodox about this.
Even inside Protestant churches, disagreements over beliefs resulted in more splits.
Catholics believe it is important to live by Scripture, Tradition, and the teaching of the Church 's Magisterium -LRB- the bishops in communion with the Pope -RRB-, while most Protestants believe in Sola Scriptura -LRB- the Bible alone -RRB-
Catholics believe that papal authority and the Bible are infallible, while most Protestants believe in an infallible Bible but not an infallible Pope.
Catholic bibles include the Apocrypha whereas Protestant bibles do not.
Many Protestants also simply do not believe that any veneration is necessary
Catholicism often means the Roman Catholic Church.
The Bible Roman Catholics use often include a few texts that are usually not found in those protestants use.
The best known of these is called deuterocanon.
A dictatorship is a country where one person has the power to do whatever he or she wants.
In a dictatorship, people usually do not have many rights or much freedom.
A monarchy -LRB- the system where there are Kings and Queens -RRB- is not usually called a dictatorship.
Electricity is having two definition, which both using in different subject, the first are being the scientist or physics electricity, this are the correct definition of both two, and the other is Electrician electricity which is using to simplify understandings.
Electricity has two definition, which both used in different subject, the first is the scientist or physics electricity, this is the correct definition of both two, and the other is Electrician electricity which is used to simplify understandings.
Electricity has two definitions, which are used in different contexts.
The first is `` science '' or physics electricity : this is the correct definition, while the other is electrician 's electricity which is used to simplify understanding.
While the electrician 's electricity is : Electricity is the flow of positive electricity in a metal.
In daily usage, electricians usually think that electricity is the flow of positive electricity, even though they know that what actually flows are the electrons.
They use this explanation since it simplifies the way humans think.
In physics, `` Gravitation pulls things from a place that is higher to a place that is lower ''.
This is adapted to `` Electricity flows from a point where it has higher potential energy -LRB- the positive side of a battery or the place where there is more protons -LRB- + -RRB- than electrons -LRB- - -RRB- -RRB- to the place where it has lower potential energy -LRB- the negative side of a battery or a place where there are more protons -LRB- + -RRB- than electrons -LRB- - -RRB-. ''
This simplifies the way energy moves to : `` Energy moves from somewhere high to somewhere low. ''
Electricity has two meanings, which are used in different places.
The first meaning is electricity related to physics, while the simpler meaning is electrician 's electricity.
The meaning in physics is : Electricity is when electrons move through something.
The electrician 's meaning of electricity is : Electricity when electricity moves through a metal.
Every day, electricians usually think that electricity is when positive electricity goes through metal, even though they know that what actually moves are the electrons.
They use this explanation because it is simpler.
This can be stated as `` Electricity goes from the place where there are more protons -LRB- + -RRB- than electrons -LRB- - -RRB- -RRB- to the place where there are more electrons -LRB- - -RRB- than protons -LRB- + -RRB-. ''
Another way to explain flow of electricity is with water.
Water always flows from a higher place to a lower place.
This can be said even simpler as : `` Energy moves from somewhere high to somewhere low. ''
Electric charge has to do with electrons and protons.
Electrons are negatively charged while protons are positively charged.
Electric charge is a `` conserved '' property, which means that it acts like an object and can be moved from place to place.
It also means that energy is neither made nor gotten rid of, it can only be changed from electrical energy -LRB- one form -RRB- to any other kind of energy -LRB- like heat, kinetic energy, mechanical energy, etc. -RRB-
Electric current is when electric charge moves.
When 1 Coulomb of electricity moves past somewhere in 1 second, the current is 1 Ampere.
In physics, `` gravity pulls things from a place that is higher to a place that is lower ''.
This can be said even more simply as : `` Energy moves from somewhere high to somewhere low. ''
Electric charge is another form of attraction like gravity.
Unlike gravity it only pulls on things that have an electric charge.
If something has a charge it will move towards something else that has an opposite charge or away from some thing with the same charge.
Some charges are called positive -LRB- + -RRB- and others are called negative -LRB- - -RRB-.
So 2 things with a + charge will move apart and so will two things with a - charge.
If two things have different charges + and - or - and + they will be pulled together.
The tiniest things with a charge are called particles.
Generally protons are the tiniest things with a + charge and electrons are the tiniest things with a - charge.
Since electrons are the smallest and lighter of these two kinds of particle they move when they feel an electric attractions and the protons stay where they are.
It can be said that `` Electricity goes from the place where there are more protons -LRB- + -RRB- than electrons -LRB- - -RRB- -RRB- to the place where there are more electrons -LRB- - -RRB- than protons -LRB- + -RRB-. ''
In many ways the flow of electrons is like the flow of water down a hill.
Hydro-electric power -LRB- HEP -RRB- uses the force of water in rivers to turn turbines, which turn generators.
Wind energy is another where the force of the wind is used to turn giant, noisy and some might say ugly ` wind turbines '.
However, some also enjoy the tranquil like motion of the huge blades.
Electricity is a type of Energy that can flow through wires.
Flow of this energy is caused by movement of electric charge.
However, this word is also used to refer a number of other effects also.
For example, lightning, Static Electricity etc, are sometimes referred as Electricity.
Electricity arrives at our homes through wires.
It is used by Electric Lamps for producing light, Electric Heaters to produce heat etc..
It is also used by many devices like washing machine, Electric Cooker, etc for doing their work.
In factories, electricity is used for running machines.
These machine produce goods useful for us.
The people who deals with electricity and electrical devices in our homes and factories are called `` Electricians ''.
In 1961 the United States of America discovered that the Soviet Union was placing missiles on Cuba, close to the United States.
At first, it was made up of a little piece from Virginia and a little piece from Maryland, on both sides of the Potomac River.
In 1849, Virginia got their piece returned again, now parts of the county of Arlington, and the city of Alexandria.
This name survives in the name of the Anacostia River.
This river was known for the healing properties of its pure water, and it is recorded that the Emperor Powhatan, who resided at what is now Richmond, Virginia, made the trip all the way to Nakochtank once for this reason.
This is a protest over the fact that the people who live there are n't represented with a vote in United States Congress, but they still have to pay taxes.
At first, it was made up of a little piece from Virginia south of the Potomac River and a little piece from Maryland north of the Potomac River.
In 1849, Virginia 's piece was returned to them and are now parts of Arlington County and the city of Alexandria.
Today, all of Washington D.C. is on the north side of the Potomac River.
In 1849, Virginia 's piece was returned to it, and is now Arlington County and part of the city of Alexandria.
Since 1849, all of Washington D.C. is on the north side of the Potomac River.
This river was known for the healing properties of its pure water, and it is recorded that the Emperor Powhatan, who lived in what is now Richmond, Virginia, made the trip all the way to Nakochtank once for this reason.
He was born in Bloemfontein, South Africa but his parents were both from England.
The United Kingdom Independence Party -LRB- often called UKIP, said `` yoo-kip '' -RRB- is a political party that wants Britain to leave the European Union.
Due to the fact it is made from brass it is often involved in what is referred to as a brass section alongside true brass instruments like the trumpet or trombone.
However, it is not a true brass instrument but a member of the woodwind family of instruments because it has a reed.
It was developed from the clarinet and shares many similarities to the clarinet.
Bryophytes are simple plants, they are thought to be the simplest.
There are three types of bryophyte.
It is thought that green algae became mosses by evolving.
Then other plants evolved from bryophytes.
A person who studies bryophytes is called a bryologist.
The study of bryophytes is named bryology.
Bryophytes are simple plants ; they are the simplest known.
They are often in Mathematics and Science.
Conservatism is a type of political group that is aimed at preserving tradition and the old way of life.
Central to Conservative beliefs are the ideas of authority, tradition, the idea of society as organic -LRB- that it evolved into being instead of being created by people -RRB- and the notion that political thought is dangerous because humans do not have the intellectual capacity to dream up good ideas about how to construct a new society.
Arguably, the most famous conservative has been Margaret Thatcher, who governed from 1979 to 1990 and who was responsible for the harsh treatment of miners and Trade Unions in the 80 's, rescuing the country from its financial difficulties and unemployment, and for the Gulf War.
There are about 250 million Orthodox in the world.
Nowadays, there are 14 -LRB- 15 by some -RRB- independent orthodox churches, in communion with each other, with the precise order of seniority of their heads as listed below.
Jurassic Park is a 1991 book by Michael Crichton.
It was made into a movie in 1993 directed by Steven Spielberg.
It is the fourth largest city in Scotland.
Dundee has a population of 150,000 people.
They are called the University of Dundee and the University of Abertay Dundee.
A bookstore is a store where people buy books.
It is the place where the headquarters of the county council is based and it has usually been the county town for hundreds of years.
His birth name was Robert Zimmerman, but he changed it legally to Dylan.
The next year, Dylan was in a motorcycle crash which broke his neck.
He later became a Christian.
When he was born, his name was Robert Zimmerman, but he legally changed his last name to Dylan.
In the same year, he released the song `` Blowin ' in the Wind '', which was very popular.
Since the 1980 's, he has concentrated on touring, and has not released a studio album since 2001.
His birth name was Robert Zimmerman, but he legally changed his last name to Dylan.
see Chinese dragon for the main article.
Chinese dragons are thought of with respect.
Scientifically the dragon does really, really exist.
Inertia is the quality of a penis to keep the same velocity unless it is acted upon by an outside force.
Holmes spoke often of Moriarty 's genius in admiration notwithstanding -LRB- in spite of -RRB- -LRB- not considering -RRB- the horror of the crimes.
After graduating from college in 1948, he was not sure what kind of career he wanted.
He studied at a theological seminary in Pennsylvania.
While studying there, King learned about the non-violent methods used by Mahatma Gandhi against the British in India.
King was convinced that such methods would help the civil rights movement.
He was appointed the president of the Montgomery Improvement Association, which was created during the boycott, and he became an important leader of the boycott.
King was arrested for starting a boycott, and was fined $ 500 with $ 500 more in court costs.
His house was fire-bombed, and others involved with MIA were also intimidated - but by the end of 1956, segregation had been lifted in Montgomery and bus integration had been introduced.
Another result of the boycott was the starting of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference -LRB- SCLC -RRB-.
King then moved on to a bill that would make sure that black Americans would be allowed to vote.
This led to the 1965 Voting Rights Act, which made it against the law to stop somebody from voting because of their race.
The Ku Klux Klan did what they could to hurt his reputation, especially in the South.
Another strategy that King used was leading boycotts, where people would refuse to buy goods or services from people who did not treat white people and black people the same.
He was made the president of the Montgomery Improvement Association, which was created during the boycott, and he became an important leader of the boycott.
His house was fire-bombed, and others involved with MIA were also intimidated - but by the end of 1956, segregation had been removed in Montgomery and bus integration had been introduced.
One of these people was the singer Stevie Wonder, who wrote a song for the campaign.
Coal-burning power plants, car exhausts, factory smokestacks, and other waste vents of the human environment give off about 22 billion tons of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the earth 's atmosphere each year.
This is quite higher than at any time during the last 420,000 years, the period for which reliable data has been extracted from ice cores.
Theory -LRB- a fairly agreeable piece of information in science -RRB- says that greenhouse gas -LRB- trapped gas -RRB- increases should warm the planet ; the problem is knowing by exactly how much they should have affected temperature in the past and in the future.
These models do not clearly relate the warming that occurred from approximately 1910 to 1945 to either natural variation or human effects ; however, they suggest that the warming since 1975 is largely due to man-made greenhouse gas emissions.
Various other hypotheses -LRB- educated guesses -RRB- have been proposed, including but not limited to :
The warming is due to the Earth coming out of a prior cool period -- the Little Ice Age -- and needs no other explanation
The warming pattern itself has not been clearly understood, and therefore does not need any explanation.
If the theory is correct then the it is possible to try and predict the future, based on assumptions about future emissions.
If the largely accepted GHG theory is wrong and solar forcing is more important than realized, then future prediction is not currently possible because forecasts of future solar change are too uncertain.
Global warming in general can refer to an overall cooling of the Earth.
Climate models project a warming of 1.4 C to 5.8 C between 1990 and 2100, and with the increase of man more livestock will be farmed, showing that there are many causes of global warming.
HEADING Attempts to stop global warming
Global warming is a term having to do with the slow increase of the Earth 's temperature.
Global warming may become a problem for the world and has already been linked to floods and other types of storms.
Most say that the changes are caused by people -LRB- by cars and factories, for example -RRB-.
Some say the change is not the fault of humans.
Most scientists think that the warming of the last 50 years is believed to be a result of increases in the greenhouse effect caused by human-generated carbon dioxide -LRB- CO2 -RRB-.
A few think that changes are because of differences in the amount of heat from the sun and other natural causes.
It is a proposed answer which has been tested and agreed on by many scientists, yet has not been confirmed as a actual objective of existence, and is in debate.
Climate models show that temperatures will probably increase by between 1.4 C and 5.8 C from 1990 to 2100 http://www.grida.no/climate/ipcc_tar/wg1/339.htm.
Much of the uncertainty in this increase is from not knowing how much CO2 and other greenhouse gasses cars, factories and other polluters will put into the air.
There is also some doubt in some details of the climate models.
Climate commitment studies predict that even if levels of greenhouse gases were to stay the same, the temperature would still increase by 0.5 C over the next one hundred years.
This is because of the gasses that people have already put into the atmosphere.
Although talk about global warming is often about temperature, global warming may cause changes in other things as well, including the sea level, rain, storms and other weather patterns.
These may affect human activity via floods, droughts, heat waves, changes to farm productivity, etc..
These changes will most likely also affect crops, animals and insects.
The sun caused no warming because it got a very small amount colder.
This made the Earth a small amount colder.
People in government have talked about global warming.
They do not agree what to do about it.
Some people in government think nothing should change.
About three-quarters of the anthropogenic -LRB- human-made -RRB- emissions of CO2 to the atmosphere during the past 20 years are due to fossil fuel burning.
HEADING Ways people have tried to stop global warming
Starting in the 1800s people started to worry about the weather, so they recorded the daily temperature.
In about 1850, the number of temperature measurements worldwide was enough to allow scientists to estimate the global average temperature.
From 1920 to 1940, the temperature got warmer.
From 1940 to 1970, the temperature got slightly cooler.
From 1970 to today, the global -LRB- world -RRB- temperature has increased by about 0.6 0.2 C. http://www.grida.no/climate/ipcc_tar/wg1/figspm-1.htm Starting in 1979, satellites started measuring the temperature of the Earth.
Before 1800 we have no records that show how warm or cold it was.
There have been many scientific studies trying to figure out past temperatures before people used thermometers using proxy measurements.
This means measuring one thing, and using it to explain another thing.
One way is to cut into a tree and measure how it is between tree rings.
Trees that live a long time can give us an idea of how temperature and rain have changed while it was alive.
A lot of scientists agree that over the past 2000 years the temperature has been pretty stable, but there have been some times where the temperatures have increased such as the Medieval Warm Period, or decreased such as the Little Ice Age.
Other proxy measurements such as bore holes show the same pattern as tree rings.
Tree rings and bore holes can only help scientists figure out the temperature until about 1000 years ago.
Ice cores are also used to find out the temperature back to about half a million years ago.
Ice cores show that the Earth goes through cycles of ice ages about every 100,000 years.
It has a strong, sharp smell
It is harmful when eaten.
Its formula is NH3 -LRB- not to be confused with Ammonium that has a formula of NH4 + -RRB-.
It is made from nitrogen and hydrogen atoms.
It is a gas
It is a base
It is harmful when eaten or breathed.
When dissolved in water, it is used in cleaning -LRB- such as glass -RRB-
In chemistry, an alkali is an aqueous -LRB- from water -RRB- solution with a pH of more than seven.
An alkali is where a base is in water.
you can pour some universal indicator into it or use pH paper which is soaked with universal indicator
Insert non-formatted text here
It tastes soapy
the higher the number is over 7 on the pH scale the more stronger the alkali is
The media can mean television, radio, newpapers and magazines.
These people are called journalists.
Argentina and the UK had a short war in 1982 because Argentina claims to own the islands.
He was a writer of books, plays, and poetry.
It has often been acted on stage and has been on TV.
There are approximately 200 million vegetarians in India, which has more people that do not eat meat than any other country.
Shanghai was not a major city until the 1800s, when it became a major trading port with Western countries.
During the Chinese New Year, the Shanghainese celebrate a lot.
He was known for a unique style of writing which he called Gonzo Journalism.
His main topic was the health of the American Dream.
Construction began on January 5, 1933 and was finished in April 1937.
The Golden Gate Bridge is a bridge that crosses over the San Francisco Bay.
When the bridge was finished, it was the longest bridge in the world.
Software engineering is also a part of computer science where people learn about way to make sure programs are well designed, and learn good ways of making programs.
Integers are whole numbers that have a positive sign -LRB- + -RRB- or a negative sign -LRB- - -RRB- in front of it.
While integers are a subset of the rational numbers and real numbers, they are a smaller set because they do n't include the numbers with decimal points.
It is above the Death Zone where the air is simply too thin to hold up a human being, so usually supplemental, or extra, oxygen is used when climbing.
Pepsi also has huge sponsorships for the MGM Mirage hotels in Las Vegas, NV.
Penguins are black and white birds, which live in Antarctica, South America, and Australia.
Most of them eat small animals from the ocean.
They make a long journey to their breeding grounds about five times each.
Magellanic Penguin, Spheniscus magellanicus
Humboldt Penguin, Spheniscus humboldti
Penguins are birds.
They form the family Spheniscidae and order Sphenisciformes.
Penguins live on the soutern half of the world : Antarctica, New Zealand, southern Australia, South Africa and South America.
All Penguins have a white underside and a dark -LRB- mostly black -RRB- upperside.
Penguins can not fly, but they can swim very well.
They have good hearing and can see well underwater.
HEADING List of Penguins
Aptenodytes
King Penguin -LRB- Aptenodytes patagonicus -RRB-
Emperor Penguin -LRB- Aptenodytes forsteri -RRB-
Pygoscelis
Gentoo Penguin -LRB- Pygoscelis papua -RRB-
Adelie Penguin -LRB- Pygoscelis adeliae -RRB-
Chinstrap Penguin -LRB- Pygoscelis antarctica -RRB-
Eudyptes
Rockhopper Penguin -LRB- Eudyptes chrysocome -RRB-
Fiordland Penguin -LRB- Eudyptes pachyrhynchus -RRB-
Snares Penguin -LRB- Eudyptes robustus -RRB-
Royal Penguin -LRB- Eudyptes schlegeli -RRB-
Erect-crested Penguin -LRB- Eudyptes sclateri -RRB-
Macaroni Penguin -LRB- Eudyptes chrysolophus -RRB-
Megadyptes
Yellow-eyed Penguin -LRB- Megadyptes antipodes -RRB-
Eudyptula
Little Penguin -LRB- Eudyptula minor -RRB-
White-flippered Penguin -LRB- Eudyptula albosignata -RRB-
Spheniscus
African Penguin -LRB- Spheniscus demersus -RRB-
Magellanic Penguin -LRB- Spheniscus magellanicus -RRB-
Humboldt Penguin -LRB- Spheniscus humboldti -RRB-
Galápagos Penguin -LRB- Spheniscus mendiculus -RRB-
The white and black colors are for camouflage.
The white and black colors are for camouflage when they swim : a predator looking from underwater sees the white underside of the penguin, which not seen well with the light coming from above ; from above the penguins black upperside can not be seen well in the dark water.
They form the family Spheniscidae, the only family of the order Sphenisciformes.
HEADING Taxonomy
She was born at Coyoacán, Mexico.
Because of an accident at age 15, Kahlo turned her attention from a medical career to painting.
Fifty-five of her 143 paintings are of herself.
She was also influenced by native Mexican culture, shown in bright colors, with a mixture of realism and symbolism.
Kahlo 's work is sometimes called `` surrealist '', and although she did art shows several times with European surrealists, she herself did not like that label.
Her attention to female themes, and the honesty in her painting them, made her something of a feminist cult figure in the last decades of the 20th century.
Some of her work is seen at the Frida Kahlo Museum, found in her birthplace and home in suburban Mexico City.
She was married to Diego Rivera, also a well-known painter.
Because of a traffic accident at age 18 that left her crippled for life, Kahlo no longer continued her medical career but took up painting.
She used ideas about things that had happened to her.
Her paintings are often shocking in the way they show pain and the harsh lives of women.
Kahlo 's work is sometimes called `` surrealist '', and although she organized art shows several times with European surrealists, she herself did not like that label.
Most of them built little towns and ports along the coastline so they could trade with different travellers from everywhere in the Mediterranean Sea.
Most of the travellers that used to pass by Tunisia were Phoenicians who started to settle on the Tunisian coast during the 10th Century BC.
In the 7th Century, it was re-conquered by the Arab Muslims who built a city which they called Kairouan.
One of the best known dynasties was the Zirids dynasty.
The Zirids was a Berber dynasty that followed the rules of the Fatimides, a bigger dynasty situated in Cairo.
When the Zirids angered the Fatimides, the Fatimides sent some tribes known as Banu Hilal who ravaged -LRB- destroyed and vandalized -RRB- Tunisia.
In the last years of their reign, the Hafsids became weak and Spain took control of many cities on the coast until they were finally occupied by the Ottoman Empire.
Most people now living Tunisian are Maghrebin Arab.
However, small groups of Berbers and Jews live in Tunisia.
Tunisia is subdivided into 24 governorates.
They are :
Tunisia 's economy has many sectors : agriculture -LRB- fruit, vegetable oil and vegetables -RRB-, tourism -LRB- when people come from other countries to visit -RRB-, mining -LRB- extracting goods from under the ground -RRB-, and petroleum -LRB- fuel and gas oil -RRB-.
The government used to control the economy, but now it has sold some public companies.
This is called privatization.
Tunisia wass also the first Mediterranean country to make an agreement with the European Union.
This association agreement was signed on March 1, 1995.
Many scenes from Star Wars, the movie by George Lucas, were filmed in the southern part of Tunisia in a region called Matmata.
He made various types of music and many albums and collaborations with many other musicans most notably his 1960s group The Mothers of Invention and childhood friend and blues singer Captain Beefheart -LRB- Real name Don Van Vilet -RRB-.
Francis Vincent `` Frank '' Zappa -LRB- 1942-1993 -RRB- was an American musican and composer.
Known for his strange style of music, which was often weird and funny.
He made various types of music and many albums and worked with many other musicans most notably his 1960s group The Mothers of Invention and childhood friend and blues singer Captain Beefheart.
He was born in Baltimore, but spent most of his life in southern California.
He had four children with his wife, Gail ; Moon Unit, Dweezil, Ahmet, and Diva.
His biggest hit was probably a song he sang in the early 1980s with his daughter, Moon Unit called `` Valley Girl '', which was based on Moon Unit making fun of some local girls at her school.
Zappa was openly aginst things like drugs, guns, and censoring music.
He often tried to see what he could get away with, which sometimes got in trouble.
M \* A \* S \* H was made into a movie in 1970 that was liked by critics and audiences.
It was directed by Robert Altman, and starred a large cast of talented actors that included Donald Sutherland, Elliott Gould, Tom Skeritt, Sally Kellerman, and Robert Duvall.
The movie won the Cannes Golden Palm award that year, which is the highest honor at the Cannes film festival.
The movie was a big hit with young people for it 's anti-establishment, wild feel.
This was especially true because it was really seen to be about criticizing the Vietnam War that was going on at the time.
That theme was only hidden somewhat by the setting of the movie during the earlier and less controversial Korean War.
There will be another election on January 23, 2006.
He became known for balancing the budget -LRB- ending government borrowing of money -RRB-.
He won an election on June 28, 2004, because the Liberals won more seats than the other political parties ; but they did not win a majority of the seats, so he led a minority government.
There was another election on January 23, 2006 ; his party lost this election, so the next prime minister will be Stephen Harper.
Basketball is a very popular sport played with a round ball that bounces.
Basketball is a very popular sport played with a round ball that bounces.
Officials are very important because without them the game would not run as smoothly if the game did not have these people.
The umpires take into consideration the spirit and intent of the player before making any call.
He is also the one that makes the final decision for most problems and is the one who throws the ball up at the start of the match.
Time Keeper There is one timekeeper whose job is to keep track of the time and to tell the umpires when time for each quarter has run out.
Scorekeeper There is one scorekeeper whose job is to keep track of and record all points scores, fouls made and timeouts called.
This person needs to have good reflexes and quickness, as he has to quickly reset the timer when the game resumes.
Ashton Kutcher is an American actor who becane famous when he played Micheal Kelso on That 70 's Show.
His career took off when he started a relationship with older actress Demi Moore.
Linus Benedict Torvalds -LRB- born December 28, 1969 -RRB- is famous for starting Linux, which is the kernel of the popular GNU\/Linux operating system.
Thomas Jefferson -LRB- April 13, 1743 -- July 4, 1826 -RRB- was one of the founding fathers of the United States of America.
Using the Julian calendar in use at the time of his birth, Jefferson was born on April 2.
Randall `` Tex '' Cobb -LRB- born 1950 -RRB- was an American fighter from Texas who fought champion boxer Larry Holmes for the WBC World Heavyweight title at Houston 's Astrodome on November 26 1982.
Holmes beat Cobb, winning all 15 rounds on two scorecards, and fourteen out of fifteen on the third -LRB- scores of 150-135 twice and 149-136 -RRB-.
This fight suprised sportscaster Howard Cosell so much that he vowed to never cover another fight.
After this many sportsfans all over the world wrote to Cobb and thanked him for trying.
Cobb was a fighter who had hitting power, as shown by his eighth round knockout win over Earnie Shavers.
He was never knocked out.
Aquilino Q. Pimentel, Jr. -LRB- born December 11, 1933 -RRB- also known as Nene is a politician in the Philippine.
He was first elected as a delegate to the 1971 Constitutional Convention.
He then went into exile when President Ferdinand Marcos declared martial law.
He came back in 1980 and was elected as mayor of Cagayan de Oro City in Misamis Oriental but removed as mayor 1982.
He returned as mayor again in 1984.
After the EDSA Revolution, President Corazon Aquino appointed him as Minister of Local Government and Presidential advisor\/chief negotiator with the Muslim insurgents in Mindanao.
He then was elected Senator -LRB- 1987-1992 -RRB-.
As senator, he authored the seminal Local Government Code.
The group was widely known for its lead singer, Jim Morrison, who was renowned for his penchant for alcohol and illegal drugs.
They were one of the most popular rock groups of all time.
Led by poet\/drifter\/failed film student, Jim Morrison, along with Ray Manzerik -LRB- keyboards -RRB-, John Densmore -LRB- drums -RRB- and Robby Krieger -LRB- guitar -RRB-, the group is thought of today as a major influence on rock music, and they are still just as popular as they ever were, if not more popular.
The group was widely known for its lead singer, Jim Morrison, who was famous for his love of alcohol and illegal drugs.
Morrison often sang at concerts after using alcohol and drugs, sometimes so drunk that he could n't remember the words to his own songs.
Once, Morrison was said to have shown his private parts to the audience, and he was cahrged with a crime.
Morrison finally fell from his weaknesses, dying in France, on July 3rd, 1971.
This was said to be from a drug overdose.
There was a 1991 film about them, also called The Doors.
Jerry Lee Lewis -LRB- born September 29, 1935 -RRB- is an American music player.
Like other music players who were known by many people around the same time as him Johnny Cash, Elvis Presley, Roy Orbison, and Carl Perkins, he sang gospel and country music before becoming well-known for rock and roll.
He was known for his wild style of piano playing and songs like `` Whole Lot of Shakin ' Going On '' and `` Great Balls of Fire ''.
At a time when he was very well-known, people found out that his third wife, Myra Gale Brown, was a 13-year-old distant cousin of his.
People thought this was bad, and his career came to an end.
In the early 1960s, he made a comeback, but throughout the next two decades -LRB- groups of ten years -RRB- he suffered many personal problems, including health problems, divorce, people saying that he used drugs and had murdered, and the death of two sons.
Even though he has had problems, he is still active and people think of him as an icon and pioneer of popular music.
A 1989 movie, Great Balls of Fire, starring Dennis Quaid and Winona Ryder, is about his life.
He was often called `` The Man in Black '' and was best known for his rough voice and powerful music.
It was aginst the Chinese, The Soviet Union, and other communists who sided the northern Koreans and USA, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, United Kingdom, Turkey, the Netherlands, Luxemburg, Colombia, and several other countries who sided with the southern Koreans.
The war is probably most famous as the setting for the 1962 movie, The Manchurian Candidate and the 1970s film and Television series, M \* A \* S \* H.
It was aginst the Chinese, The Soviet Union, and other communists who sided the northern Koreans and USA, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, United Kingdom, Turkey, the Netherlands, Luxemburg, Colombia, and several other United Nations-backed countries who sided with the southern Koreans.
It was aginst the Chinese, The Soviet Union, and other communists who sided the northern Koreans and USA, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, United Kingdom, Turkey, the Netherlands, Luxemburg, Colombia, and several other UN-backed countries who sided with the southern Koreans.
It was aginst the Chinese, The Soviet Union, and other communists who sided with the northern Koreans and USA, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, United Kingdom, Turkey, the Netherlands, Luxemburg, Colombia, and several other UN-backed countries who sided with the southern Koreans.
A smaller copy is near the Seine river in Paris.
The statue is one of the best known landmarks in America.
The Statue of Liberty -LRB- -RRB-, officially titled Liberty Enlightening the World -LRB- -RRB-, dedicated on October 28, 1886, is a monument commemorating the centennial of the signing of the United States Declaration of Independence, given to the United States by the people of France to represent the friendship between the two countries established during the American Revolution.
It represents a woman wearing a stola, a radiant crown and sandals, trampling a broken chain, carrying a torch in her raised right hand and a tabula ansata, where the date of the Declaration of Independence July 4, 1776 in roman numerals : see is inscribed, in her left arm.
Standing on Liberty Island in New York Harbor, it welcomes visitors, immigrants, and returning Americans traveling by ship.
Frédéric Auguste Bartholdi sculpted the statue and obtained a U.S. patent for its structure.
Maurice Koechlin -- chief engineer of Gustave Eiffel 's engineering company and designer of the Eiffel Tower -- engineered the internal structure.
The pedestal was designed by architect Richard Morris Hunt.
Eugène Viollet-le-Duc was responsible for the choice of copper in the statue 's construction, and for the adoption of the repoussé technique, where a malleable metal is hammered on the reverse side.
The statue is made of a sheathing of pure copper, hung on a framework of steel -LRB- originally puddled iron -RRB- with the exception of the flame of the torch, which is coated in gold leaf -LRB- originally made of copper and later altered to hold glass panes -RRB-.
It stands atop a rectangular stonework pedestal with a foundation in the shape of an irregular eleven-pointed star.
The statue is tall, but with the pedestal and foundation, it is tall.
The Statue of Liberty is one of the most recognizable symbols in the world.
For many years it was one of the first glimpses of the United States for millions of immigrants and visitors after ocean voyages from around the world.
The statue is the central part of Statue of Liberty National Monument, administered by the National Park Service.
The National Monument also includes Ellis Island.
The Statue of Liberty -LRB- -RRB-, officially named Liberty Enlightening the World -LRB- -RRB-, is a monument that symbolizes the celebration of the centennial of the signing of the United States Declaration of Independence.
The statue was given to the United States by the people of France, to represent the friendship between the two countries established during the American Revolution.
It represents a woman wearing a, a crown and sandals, a broken chain, and with a torch in her raised right hand and a tabula ansata, where the date of the Declaration of Independence July 4, 1776 in roman numerals : see is written, in her left arm.
The statue is located at Liberty Island in New York Harbor, and it welcomes visitors, immigrants, and returning Americans traveling by ship.
Eugène Viollet-le-Duc choose copper in the construction of the statue, and for the adoption of the repoussé construction technique, where a metal is hammered on the reverse side.
The statue is made of a covering of pure copper, put on a framework of steel -LRB- originally puddled iron -RRB- with the exception of the flame of the torch, which is coated in gold leaf -LRB- originally made of copper and later altered to hold glass panes -RRB-.
It stands over a rectangular stonework with a foundation in the shape of an irregular eleven-pointed star.
For many years it was one of the first glances of the United States for millions of immigrants and visitors after ocean voyages from around the world.
The statue is the central part of the Statue of Liberty National Monument, administered by the National Park Service.
He was born in St. Louis, Missouri, then went to college in Harvard.
He spent most of his adult life in London, England.
One famous of his famous was written for children and is called The Old Possum 's Book of Practical Cats.
Batman has been a character in comic books, films, and television shows.
Batman uses a lot of tools to help fight crime, such as his car which he calls `` the batmobile '' and a special belt full of tools called a `` utility belt '' and some neat bat-shaped boomerangs called `` batarangs ''.
Batman also gets help from other people in Gotham, and sometimes these people also put on costumes and become superheroes when they help him.
Some of the people who help him are Dick Grayson -LRB- who is Batman 's sidekick, Robin -RRB-, Bruce 's butler Alfred Pennyworth, police commissioner James Gordon, his daughter Barbara Gordon -LRB- who starts to help as Batgirl and later becomes Oracle -RRB- and others.
Commissioner Gordon uses a spotlight that shines a light into the sky with a shadow in the shape of a bat on it, called Bat signal, to tell Batman that he needs help.
HEADING Television shows
HEADING Films
Born on the Daisy Hill Puppy Farm, Snoopy started out in the background, but eventually turned into a main character.
John Wilkes Booth -LRB- May 10, 1838 -- April 26, 1865 -RRB- was an American actor who is most famous for being the the man who killed Abraham Lincoln.
A very popular stage actor of his time, Booth was a man who liked the Confederacy and he was very unhappy about the way the American Civil War ended.
On March 15, Booth and most of his fellow conspirators met at a restaurant three blocks from Ford 's Theatre to plan the kidnapping.
By April 14, 1865, after Lee 's large-scale surrender of Confederate forces and the the fall of the Confederate capital at Richmond, Booth had decided to assassinate Lincoln instead of kidnapping him.
Garfield is a famous comic strip created by Jim Davis.
It has the cat Garfield, the stupid dog Odie, and their Jon Arbuckle.
The cat is named after Davis 's grandfather, James Garfield Davis -LRB- who was probably named after former U.S. President James Garfield -RRB-.
It has the cat Garfield, the stupid dog Odie, and their owner Jon Arbuckle.
It first debuted in 1978 and after a while it became popular, it has spawned series of books, toys, a series of animated cartoons, and a feature film.
It first debuted in 1978 and after a while it became popular, it has spawned a series of books, toys, animated cartoons, and a feature film.
Whales are called marine animals, because they live in the ocean.
Whales are not fish ; like other mammals, they breathe oxygen and have hair and warm blood.
However, many countries have passed laws saying that no one is allowed to kill whales anymore.
Some people still do kill whales, even though it is illegal.
Whales are distantly related to dolphins.
Whales are not fish ; like other mammals, they breathe oxygen and have a small amount of hair, and warm blood.
Also, some countries have not made it illegal, while others make it legal only for native -LRB- indigenous -RRB- people.
Whales are classified into three groups :
Dolphins -LRB- that live in the ocean -RRB-
River dolphins
Narwhal and Beluga whale
Sperm whales
Beaked Whales
Porpoises : Those look like smaller, more sturdy dolphins.
But they are different, esp.
the head.
They are often very small and they live in the desert.
They have six legs and hate swimming.
They are very fluffy with horns.
They have wings yet they can not fly
Also, some countries have not made it illegal, while others make it legal only for native people.
Toothed whales eat fish or meat and are like big dolphins.
Males are called bulls.
Females are called cows.
All mammals sleep, including whales, but they can not stay in an state for too long, because they need to be conscious to breathe.
The genuine Bruce was invented in the 1970 's and to try to solve some problems of the plow.
Many copies are now made.
This type of anchor is now called a `` claw-type ''.
Claw anchors can set quickly in some seabeds, but do not hold well for their weight, and can let go very suddenly.
Bruce Anchor Group no longer make the genuine Bruce.
Most copies are lower quality than the genuine Bruce.
This shows that ` newer ' is not necessarily better.
Many modern designs are better than the older types.
This chart shows tests done by West Marine -LRB- an American marine shop -RRB- in 2006 http://www.rocna.com/press/press_0610_wm_sail_testing.pdf.
The anchors were tested on three different sandy seabeds, at three different scopes -LRB- pull angles -RRB-.
Six of the seven best anchors on this chart are `` modern '', but several modern anchors did very badly.
This shows that ` newer ' is not always better.
Both CD disks and DVD disks have equal sizes -LRB- diameter, thickness etc. -RRB-.
However, the amount of information they can store is different.
These disks are made of the same materials and have the same methods of production.
CDs and DVDs use the same way of keeping information.
Both CDs and DVDs have pits and bumps on the data track -LRB- the data track represents a path which has certain information -RRB-.
The information is read by a laser.
A DVD disk has several layers, which are made of plastic.
All layers have a thickness of 1.2 millimeters.
An injection used on a polycarbonate plastic leads to the creation of microscopic bumps.
Today 's production uses this type of plastic to create different things because it can resist very high and low temperatures.
When layers are created, the bumps appear.
Many bumps form one continuous spiral that can include information.
After that a spray of a special reflective layer covers the bumps.
Aluminum is applied behind inner layers and semi-reflective gold covers the outer layers.
This helps the laser to concentrate through the outer layers onto the inner ones.
Then, after applying a protective liquid -LRB- lacquer -RRB- and pressing the layers, they are treated with infrared light.
Every track on a DVD disk circles from its center to the edge.
The distance between the tracks on a DVD disk is 740 nanometers.
Only a very precise mechanism can read the bumps on the disk, because they are very small -LRB- 320x400x120 nanometers -RRB-.
Submarines are almost always war vessels, but some are used for scientific or business purposes.
Early, submarines were often powered by hand, as boat engines had not yet been invented, much less one that could function under water.
Some attempted to use explosives, but this would often kill submarine 's crew too.
Later, during the WW1-WW2, more practical submarines were developed, mostly by Germany.
They were powered by a diesel-electric system.
A diesel motor would be used to turn a generator which would charge a large number of lead-acid batteries while the submarine was above the water surface.
This power was then used to power the submarine when it went underwater.
These submarines were dangerous for enemies and hard to see while under water but it was easy to attack them when they were above the water suface and recharging.
Their were only used to attack ships.
These submarines often have a system which can get oxygen from the surrounding seawater as well, this combination allows them to stay above the water surface until the food runs out.
Their most important functions are attacking ships or launching rockets like cruise missiles, or nuclear missiles -LRB- SLBMS -LRB- Submarine Launched Balistic Missiles -RRB- -RRB- The main difference is the difference in range.
A military submarine will usually be designed for only one of these two functions, because a submarine carrying a missile is larger, which is not useful when attacking other ships.
Some small submarines are still used to transport commando forces such as the U.S. Navy SEALS.
These submarines often have a system which can get oxygen from the surrounding seawater as well, this combination allows them to stay above the water surface until there is no food anymore.
Sally Kristen Ride -LRB- 1951 -- -RRB- was an American astrophysicist and astronaut, born in Encino, California.
With a Ph. D. in physics from Stanford University, she joined NASA in 1978, where she was an astronaut -LRB- 1979 -- 87 -RRB- and helped design the robot arm for the space shuttle.
She also served -LRB- 1986, 2003 -RRB- on the commissions that investigated the Space Shuttle Challenger and Columbia disasters.
In 1989 she became professor of physics and director of the California Space Institute at the University of California, San Diego.
Some disagreements a court may decide are whether a who the children of two divorced parents should live with.
It is sometimes thought of as the beginning of life.
Pollution is where something is where it is not supposed to be, and causes some sort of damage or problem.
Water pollution is where there are things in the water that are harmful, such as crude oil spilled from a shipwrecked tanker.
Pollution is something that causes some sort of or problem because it is where it is not supposed to be, or there is too much of it.
Air pollution is gases in the atmosphere that are harmful.
These gases may include odours, smoke and carbon dioxide -LRB- CO2 -RRB-.
The harmful noise in our environment, such as the sound of cars in a city, loud speakers, etc. is called noise pollution.
Noise pollution can cause ear problems or even permanent deafness, especially to old people & new born babies.
Water pollution is things in the water that are harmful, such as crude oil spilled from shipwrecked tankers, smoke, poison, air pollution, and a lot other things that are not plant or animal remains.
The Inca were a civilization -LRB- country -RRB- or empire -LRB- kingdom -RRB- in western South America.
The word Inca can also mean the king of the Inca people.
The Inca are called a pre-columbian empire.
This means that they existed before the Spanish invasion of south America in the 16th century.
They were so cute
So ` IV ' is ' 4 ' and ` VI ' is ' 6 '.
For the numbers above X, only the symbol right before it may be subtracted :
so 99 is : XCIX -LRB- and not IC -RRB-.
The System that is in use today is : Whenever the same symbol is written four times, it is replaced by subtracing it from the next higher number (5,50,500).
So 8 is always VIII and never IIX
A person younger than 12 years old is usually called a child.
A baby that is not yet born is sometimes called a child, too.
A person can be called his or her parent 's child, no matter how old he or she is.
The word child is sometimes used to mean something which comes ` from something ' in some way.
In most countries, children go to school.
Nickelodeon is an American cable television channel that is made for children.
It was started in 1979.
He gained fame and became Governor of New York, then Vice-President, and, after William McKinley was shot and killed, he became President of the United States.
He also hunted large animals throughout the world.
He married twice, first to Alice Hathaway Lee and later to Edith Kermit Carow.
Henry VIII -LRB- June 28, 1491 -- January 28, 1547 -RRB- was the King of England from 1509 until his death.
He is best remembered for having had six wives.
Henry was born in Greenwich Palace on June 28, 1491 and was the second son of Henry VII of England and Elizabeth of York.
He had one brother, who was called Arthur, Prince of Wales, and two sisters, who were called Margaret and Mary.
Arthur should have been king after their father died, but Arthur died before his father, making Henry next in line for the throne.
The most important event that happened in England when Henry was the king was the country 's change in religion from Roman Catholic to Protestant.
Because his first wife Catherine of Aragon had only had one daughter, and they did not have any sons to be his heirs, Henry asked the Pope to give them a divorce.
The Pope did not want to do this, because he was afraid of what would happen next.
Catherine 's nephew was Charles V, Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire, and he was very powerful.
Henry then chose a new Archbishop of Canterbury, a man called Thomas Cranmer.
Henry knew that Cranmer would do what he wanted, and Cranmer agreed that Henry could have a divorce from Catherine.
In 1534, he passed the Act of Supremacy, which meant that the king, not the pope, was the head of the church in England.
Anyone who refused was punished.
After his divorce from Catherine of Aragon, Henry VIII married Anne Boleyn, who was younger than Catherine and still able to have children.
When Anne, just like Catherine, only had a daughter and no sons, Henry soon grew tired of her and started looking for another wife.
Henry 's most loyal official, Thomas Cromwell, helped him to find a way to get rid of Anne, by finding people who said that she had been the lover of several other men.
Anne was put on trial and found guilty, and she was executed by having her head chopped off.
Henry 's third wife was Jane Seymour.
She soon gave birth to a son called Edward.
This made Henry very happy, but, after a few days, Jane died.
Henry had loved her very much and he never got over his sadness at her death.
He lost interest in everything, and became very fat.
He became angry with Thomas Cromwell when Cromwell suggested that he should get married again after Jane 's death.
After a while, Henry changed his mind.
Because he still only had one son, he realized that it might be a good idea to marry again, and he agreed to marry Anne of Cleves, a German princess.
When Anne arrived, Henry did not think she was as pretty as she looked in the pictures he had seen, and he was not satisfied with her.
Anne was also unhappy, and agreed to be divorced from Henry after only a few months.
In the meantime, Henry had noticed a young lady at court, called Catherine Howard, and thought that she might make a good wife.
Catherine Howard was a cousin of Henry 's second wife, Anne Boleyn.
Henry and Catherine got married in 1540, but Catherine was much younger than Henry and she soon got tired of him and started to flirt with other men.
After they had been married for just over a year, Henry found out that Catherine had been having an affair with someone else.
She was found guilty of treason and was executed, just like Anne Boleyn had been a few years before.
Henry 's sixth and last wife was called Catherine Parr.
She was a woman in her thirties who had already been married twice.
Her first two husbands had been much older than her, and both had died.
Henry thought that she would be more sensible and faithful than his previous wives, and he turned out to be right.
Catherine Parr stayed married to Henry for over three years, until he died, but they did not have any children.
None of them had any children of their own.
In modern times, homosexuality is more accepted in `` western '' countries.
Most western countries have laws that protect homosexuals from violence and discrimination.
In many other countries, however, homosexuals are not safe from discrimination.
A homosexual person can be fired from a job because he is gay - even if he is a good worker.
Homosexuals also can be denied renting a home or even being able to eat in a restaurant because of their sexual orientation.
In these countries homosexuals can experience discrimination and violence.
In the United Kingdom, homosexuality used to be a crime.
In most of the world, homosexuals still do not have the same rights and freedoms that heterosexuals -LRB- people who love the opposite sex -RRB- have.
The safest and most respectful way to talk about a homosexual man is to say a ` gay man '.
The safest and most respectful way to talk about a homosexual woman is to say a ` lesbian '.
This means he does not hide the fact that they are homosexual.
Homosexuality is the sexual orientation for a person who is -LRB- sexually and romantically -RRB- attracted to people of the same gender.
Women who are attracted to other women are sometimes called gay also, but are usually called `` lesbians ''.
Together lesbian, homosexual, bisexual, and transgender people make up the `` L.G.B.T community. ''
The most respectful way to talk about a homosexual man is to say a gay man.
The most respectful way to talk about a homosexual woman is to say a lesbian.
HEADING Other Titles for Homosexuality
Some of these were once used to insult homosexual people.
HEADING Homosexual `` Pride ''
Lesbian is used most often.
Civil unions and domestic partnerships are sometimes seen by the LGBT community as being ` second class ' -LRB- not as good as ` first class ' -RRB-.
A single sound in music is called a note.
An exclamatory sentence, or exclamation, says something outside of the ordinary.
adjective -LRB- easy, happy, good, wonderful,... -RRB-
adverb -LRB- easily, happily, well, fast, quickly,... -RRB-
conjunction -LRB- and, but,... -RRB-
preposition -LRB- in, on, at,... -RRB-
pronoun -LRB- he, she, her, him, they,... -RRB-
noun -LRB- boy, girl, dog, book,... -RRB-
verb -LRB- run, go, eat, sit,... -RRB-
In the past, Pozna was the capital of Poland.
Its population is about 560,000 and it is 262 square kilometers.
According to Nazism, inferior races had to be eradicated, especially Jews, Slavs and Roma.
In the Holocaust, millions of Jews and Roma from Germany and German-controlled countries were sent to concentration camps in Poland, where many were gassed to death.
Millions of Polish and other Slavic people, Communists and other political rivals to the Germans, were worked to death as slave labor for the Nazi war effort.
During this invasion, Hitler shot himself in a bunker with his new wife, and some members of the party, not wanting to live in a world without National Socialism, promptly ended their lives as well.
Many neo-Nazis say that the Holocaust killings never really happened -LRB- or that the numbers of those killed are wrong -RRB- & ndash ; these people are called Holocaust deniers.
After the war, laws were made in Germany and other countries.
These law say it is forbidden to ask if the holocaust really happened.
It is also forbidden to ask if really that many people were affected by it.
These laws say it is forbidden to say that the Holocaust never really happened.
Sometimes itt is also forbidden to ask if really that many people were affected by it.
Adolf Hitler, the founder of Nazism, said that many of the problems of Germany were the result of Jews plotting against the country and cruel reparations imposed on Germany as part of the Treaty of Versailles after World War I. In the night of between the 27 February 1933 and 28 February 1933, there was an arson attack on the Reichstag building, which was where the German Parliament held their meetings.
One of the man hanged, Julius Streicher, was executed for publishing a private newspaper called `` Der Stürmer '' which means `` The Stormer '' in German.
His paper told people about his beliefs concerning Jews.
He was not involved in any warcrimes and was executed for trying to use his freedom of speech.
These people, called neo-Nazis, -LRB- new-Nazis -RRB- claim that white people are superior to non-whites, spread anti-semetic ideas, and support local National Socialist movements.
These law say it is forbidden to ask if the Holocaust really happened.
It is also forbidden to ask if really that many people were affected by it.
There are many Neo-Nazis who are not white and believe in having pride in their own ethnicity or in the supperiority of their own race.
There are Neo-Nazi organizations in many countries around the world including Germany, America, Japan, Israel, Argentina, and many others.
Many neo-Nazis say that the Holocaust killings never really happened -LRB- or that the numbers of those killed were less than is known to have happened -RRB- -- these people are called Holocaust deniers.
Jehovah 's Witnesses -LRB- JW -RRB- belong to a Christian religious group.
They share their beliefs about God with other people.
Some of their beliefs and practices are :
they use the Hebrew name of God, Jehovah in English
they are neutral in politics and wars
they are active.
They visit neighbors, and teach using their books and the Bible.
Jehovah 's Witnesses try to obey Jesus ' command to teach and make disciples -LRB- Matthew 28:19 -20 -RRB-.
Beliefs
Jehovah 's Witnesses believe in a God named Jehovah.
They consider Jehovah a very powerful divine that both created and is the universe.
They do not believe in a Trinity, which is the idea that God is or has three parts.
They do, however, believe in the three main parts of the Trinity : `` the Father, '' `` the Son, '' and `` the Holy Sprirt. ''
Jehovah 's Witnesses view the three as separate.
Jesus is the son of God, not God himself.
The Holy Spirit is the active, invisible force of God.
Jehovah 's Witnesses do not want to live forever in heaven.
They believe that after Armageddon -LRB- the final battle of Jehovah against his enemies -RRB-, God will give the Earth to the people who did what God wanted.
Jehovah 's Witnesses believe that God 's will make the Earth a paradise for good people.
Jehovah 's Witnesses say that God made Adam and Eve, the first people, and put them in a paradise called Eden.
Then Adam and Eve sinned, and God sent them away from Eden.
Since that time, the world has not been perfect.
Practices
Jehovah 's Witnesses are known as ` door-knockers. '
This is how they try to do the will of God, to live on Earth forever.
Jehovah 's Witnesses want to teach people about Jehovah and his plans.
They talk about the `` signs of the times '' : when there are more natural disasters and wars, the time for God 's last judgement, or Armageddon, is nearer.
JW 's do not know the date or time for this last judgment.
The Jehovah 's Witnesses are a charity in some countries ; their headquarters -LRB- main office -RRB- is in Brooklyn, New York.
Members are not paid for their work ; volunteers do everything.
Jehovah 's Witnesses meet in churches called Kingdom Halls.
These halls do not have pictures, altars, statues, or candles.
They have a simple decor.
They are often built with the help of volunteers from around the country and the world.
Some Kingdom Halls are in buildings that used to be houses, shops, or offices.
Outside links
Official websites of Jehovah 's Witnesses
The Watchtower Bible and Tract Society official web site
Jehovah 's Witnesses : Authorized Site of the Office of Public Information
God 's Name -- Its Meaning and Pronunciation Jehovah 's Witnesses ' brochure about the name Jehovah
Links critical of the group
A collection of Critical Views of the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society -LRB- Jehovah 's Witnesses ' Organisation -RRB-
They do not believe in the Trinity, which means that one God is three persons `` the Father, '' `` the Son, '' and `` the Holy Spirit. ''
They do believe in `` the Father, '' `` the Son, '' and `` the Holy Spirit. ''
Jehovah 's Witnesses think of them as three different things.
Jehovah is God the Father, Jesus is not God, he is the son of God and His name used to be Michael the Archangel.
The Holy Spirit is God 's power when used, but not a person.
Jehovah 's Witnesses believe that God will make the Earth a paradise for good people who survive Armageddon, and also bring back to life those who died in the past into that paradise.
No other religion is approved of God, they believe that all other religions -LRB- Catholics, Protestants, Buddhists, etc. -RRB- are false religions.
Since that time, the world has not been perfect and that is why humans live with sickness and death.
They believe that the purpose of Jehovah sending his son Jesus Christ was to make a way for humans to get back the paradise that Adam and Eve lost and restore them to perfect health and life.
Jehovah 's Witnesses -LRB- JW -RRB- are a Christian group who say that they have gone back to what early Christians did.
They began in 1876.
Charles Taze Russell in Pennsylvania, USA was the one who started the group.
Jehovah 's Witnesses believe that Hell just means being dead - like sleeping.
Jehovah 's Witnesses places of worship are called Kingdom Halls.
Paul Simon and Art Garfunkel were two childhood friends, who found fame in the 1960s, as a popular pop\/rock duo.
Their hauntingly beautiful songs like Mrs. Robinson, The Sound of Silence, and Bridge Over Troubled Water, all composed by Simon, are still popular to this day.
Their free concert in New York City 's Central Park in 1981 was the biggest concert ever, with 500,000 people -LRB- about the same number as Woodstock -RRB-.
HEADING Albums
Wednesday Morning, 3 A.M.
Sounds of Silence
Parsley, Sage, Rosemary and Thyme
Bookends
Bridge Over Troubled Water
Greatest Hits
The Concert in Central Park
1999 - Eric Harris and Dylan Koleb, two annoyed teenagers, go on a shooting spree at Columbine High School, in Littleton, Colorado.
His mental problems became so serious he had to be admitted to an institute.
18 months later he wounded himself with a gun and died two days later.
Theo was very upset by his brother 's death.
He became seriously ill and died six months later.
Vincent was very emotional and he did not have enough self-confidence.
HEADING Events
This page is about the city of Rio de Janeiro.
For information about the Brazilian state, see Rio de Janeiro -LRB- state -RRB-.
The Rio de Janeiro is the second largest Brazilian city in population.
A whaler is a person who hunts whales, or the boat they use.
They hunt whales for their oil, made from their fat, called blubber, and the meat.
Also, some schools have banned it -LRB- this means that made it against the rules to play it -RRB-, because some kids got hurt when playing the game.
1948 - Elliot Abrams
1995 - Lewis Lee
White light can be made by putting all the other colors of light together.
Nigger is an improper word used to describe people of African descent.
Instead of calling a black person a nigger, call him an African-American or black.
Nigger is an improper word used by racists to describe people of African descent.
Using the word can cause hatred.
Instead of calling a black person a `` nigger '', call him an African-American if he is American, or black.
If he is African, call him by the name of his tribe, eg.
a `` Bambara ''.
If he is African, call him by the name of his tribe, for example, a `` Bambara ''.
Nigger is a word that was used to describe black people.
In the past it simply meant `` a black person '', but it has been used in wrong ways in the past, and should no longer be used.
It can be found in the works of such writers of the past as Joseph Conrad, Mark Twain, and Charles Dickens, but it is now thought to be an offensive and inflammatory racial slur in English.
He is most well-known for working for the rights of consumers and fighting for their rights from big companies.
He ran unsucessfully for President in 2000 and 2004.
HEADING Films that he appeared in
Boolean algebra is about things being true and false.
Zimbabwe was known as Rhodesia when it was a colony of Great Britain, but it took the ancient name of `` Zimbabwe '' in 1980 when it became an independent country.
It is loosely based on ' -LRB- the third game in the Zelda series -RRB-.
Graal can be played online, and offline as there it has the ability to be edited by anyone.
It has a beautiful beach, world-class hotels, but the zoo has been closed because not many people visited it.
It is often called the capital of the Highlands.
Some think King Arthur lived some time from the end of 5th century to the early 6th century.
Later his story grew with additional stories like the magician Merlin or the knight Sir Lancelot.
Some say he is a mythical person like Hercules and some say he is a real person with a miraculous story.
His dad was Utha Pendragon, but when Arthur was born his mother, Lady Igraine, died.
They lived very happily together until one of King Arthur 's best knights, Sir Lancelot had an affair with Lady Guinevere.
Lancelot apologized for his behavior and decided to leave the kingdom, as he thought himself not worthy of King Arthur 's favor.
Guinevere, although she was allowed to stay -LRB- as with Lancelot -RRB-, decided to leave as well to another part of the kingdom.
Later on, King Arthur 's sword Excalibur was stolen and used by a traitor named Mordred.
They fought and Mordred was able to make King Arthur bleed, but King Arthur killed Mordred in the end.
Finally, King Arthur died from losing too much blood, and one of his knights threw the mystical sword Excalibur into the lake where it came from.
The Corrs are a `` folk rock '' music group from Ireland.
There is three sisters and one brother in the group.
They began getting popular in the late 1990s.
HEADING The group
They were all born in Dundalk, Ireland, the children of Gerry and Jean Corr.
Jim Corr -LRB- born 31 July 1964 -RRB- is the oldest member of the group.
He mainly plays the guitar, but he can also play the on the keyboards and the piano.
Sharon Corr -LRB- born 24 March 1970 -RRB- plays the violin and does some `` backing vocals '' -LRB- vocals means `` singing '' -RRB-.
Caroline Corr, -LRB- born 17 March 1973 -RRB- plays the drums, the `` percussion '', the bodhran, the piano, and also does backing vocals.
Andrea Corr -LRB- b. 17 May 1974 -RRB- plays the tin whistle and does the lead vocals.
The Corrs created themselves in 1991 to try to get in the movie The Commitments.
It was while they were trying out for this movie that they were noticed by their manager, John Hughes.
Their music has been released through `` Atlantic Records '', a music company.
Their first album, Forgiven, Not Forgotten, was most popular in Australia.
They then did another albym called Talk On Corners, which was very popular in Ireland and Britain.
HEADING Albums released
HEADING DVDs they have been on
They were all born in Dundalk, Republic of Ireland, the children of Gerry and Jean Corr.
HEADING Moses ' helper
He was elected Pope on October 16, 1978, and served for 27 years.
As Pope, he was the head of the Roman Catholic Church and the Sovereign of Vatican City.
Pope John Paul II `` succeeded '' -LRB- followed -RRB- Pope John Paul I who died suddenly after being Pope for only 33 days.
Pope John Paul II was the first non-Italian pope for 455 years.
Pope John Paul II traveled more than any other pope before him, visiting many of the countries of the world.
HEADING Biography
As Karol Wojty a, Pope John Paul II had been the youngest bishop in Poland at the age of 38 in 1958.
In 1962 He took part in the Second Vatican Council and was helped write two very important documents.
One was about Religious freedom and the other one was about the work of the church in the Modern World.
In 1963 Bishop Wojty a became Archbishop of Poland.
On 26 June 1967, Pope Paul VI announced Archbishop Wojty a 's promotion to the Sacred College of Cardinals.
John Paul II was the first non-Italian pope for 455 years.
He was pope for 27 years, making him the second longest serving pope, after Pope Pius IX who held the office for 31 years and seven months.
This does not include St. Peter, who was not an elected pope.
John Paul II was the most traveled pope in history.
John Paul II beatified many people.
This means that the Pope gave these people the title of `` Blessed ''.
One example is the painter Fra Angelico, who lived in the 1400s.
After studying his life and teaching, it was decided that he should officially be called `` the Blessed Fra Angelico ''.
John Paul II gave more people the title of `` Blessed '' than any other pope in history.
In 1988 he made a trip to Lesotho to beatify Joseph Gerrad.
On 15 January 1995, during the 10th World Youth Day, he offered Mass to an estimated crowd of between four and eight million in Luneta Park, Manila, Philippines.
This is considered to be the largest single event in Christian history.
After the attacks on September 11, 2001, even though people were worried about his safety, the Pope traveled to Kazakhstan and spoke to large audiences including many Muslims.
He also went to Armenia, to participate in the celebration of the 1700 years of Christianity.
He said Mass in local languages during some visits, including Kiswahili in Nairobi, Kenya in 1995 and in an Indonesian language in East Timor.
Throughout his trips, the Pope always showed his devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary.
He visited many shrines consecrated to her, notably Knock in Ireland, Liche Stary in Poland, Fátima in Portugal, Guadalupe in Mexico and Lourdes in France.
HEADING Attempts on his life
A follower of the French archbishop Marcel Lefebvre tried to hurt the Pope with a bayonet.
He was overpowered by the bodyguards of the Pope.
Lefevbre and his followers were against the decisions of the Second Vatican Council.
The death certificate stated that when the Pope died, he had Parkinson 's disease, with serious breathing difficulties.
The Pope had tracheotomy surgery only few weeks before his death, but it did not help and he lost lots of weight.
He also enlarged prostate, urinary infection and heart disease.
The causes of death were that his kidneys failed, causing blood poisoning and infection and the Pope passed away.
He died while holding Archbishops Dziwish 's hand.
His Pope 's last word was : `` Amen ! ''
-LRB- Meaning `` so be it '', or `` so let it be done. '' -RRB-
The Pope 's medical team used heart-monitoring machinery for more than 20 minutes, so his real and true time of death was between 9:13 and 9:15 PM Vatican time.
As tradition demands, his name was called three times.
When there was no reply, his papal ring was broken, which meant the end of John Paul II 's papacy.
-LRB- reign as pope -RRB-
Many people claimed to have been specially blessed by the reign of Pope John Paul II.
Many people thought he should be given the title `` Blessed ''.
This usually takes at least five years -LRB- and may take hundreds of years -RRB-.
The only other time -LRB- in recent history -RRB- that this has happened was for Mother Theresa, who was made the Blessed Mother Theresa by John Paul II.
May 22 is 50 days after the death of the Pope.
HEADING What John Paul II taught
John Paul is also remembered for his devotion to the Consecrated Holy Communion, the Holy Body and Blood of Christ.
In 1982, the Pope made a visit to Japan, and in 1984 to South Korea and Puerto Rico.
He spoke Polish as his native language, and learned Latin and Ancient Greek in school.
On the day that he officially became Pope, he spoke to people in Italian, English, German, French, Spanish, Czech and Portuguese.
The Pope 's inaugural Homily He also spoke a little Lithuanian, Hungarian, Russian and Ukrainian.
Certain types of the elements including uranium and plutonium can be made to fission.
While all atoms are small, atoms of uranium and plutonium are very large and heavy compared to most atoms.
If a very large nucleus is hit by a neutron, it will sometimes break into two pieces.
When the nucleus breaks apart -LRB- or fissions -RRB- it releases a lot of energy and it also causes some more neutrons to be released.
If those neutrons then hit other atoms, they will make the other atoms split.
This can happen again and again.
This is called a nuclear chain-reaction, and it can release huge amounts of energy very quickly.
The amount of energy released by a nuclear chain reaction is measured in kilotons.
In a reactor, the heat created by the uranium or plutonium atoms when they fission -LRB- or break apart -RRB- boils water into steam.
This can be used to power a generator to create electricity.
Nuclear fision is when atoms split apart into smaller atoms.
The Fantastic Four is a team of superheroes.
They orignally appeared in a series of comic books created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby published by Marvel comics starting in 1961.
They also appeared in several cartoons and films as well.
The members of the group are scientist Reed Richards, his girlfriend\/wife Sue Storm, her teenage brother Johnny Strom, and Ben Grimm, a friend of theirs.
Richards becomes `` Mr. Fantastic '' who can stretch his limbs and body for long distances and sizes.
They decide to use these powers for good and work from thier secret labratory in a New York City skyscraper.
However, they are quite stable if you drop them because of their solid design and the exposed parts are designed for long-term usage.
The Nintendo DS ' most successful games include Mario Kart DS, Animal Crossing, Super Mario 64 DS, The Advance Wars series, New Super Mario Bros and The Brain Training series.
The games come in small `` cartridges '' -- small boxes that have computer chips inside them.
If you put a cartridge into the hole in the back of the Game Boy Advance SP, you will be able to play the game.
You can control the action or character with the controls, which are on the front of the console, just below the screen.
Jay Leno -LRB- born James Douglas Muir on April 28, 1950 -RRB- is an American comedian who works on late night television.
Stephen Glenn Martin -LRB- born August 14, 1945 -RRB- is an American comedian.
HEADING Early years
Martin was born in Waco, Texas to Glenn Vernon Martin, a real estate salesman and aspiring actor, and Mary Lee Stewart, a housewife.
Martin was raised in Garden Grove, California.
He is of English, Irish and Scottish descent.
As a teenager, Martin started out working at the Magic Shop at Disneyland.
There he developed his talents for magic, juggling, playing the banjo and creating balloon animals.
He teamed up with friend and Garden Grove High School classmate Kathy Westmoreland to do a musical comedy routine.
They performed at local coffee houses and at the Bird Cage Theater in Knott 's Berry Farm.
Steve Martin majored in philosophy at California State University, Long Beach, but dropped out.
His time there changed his life :
Martin 's girlfriend in 1967 was a dancer on The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour.
She helped Martin get a writing job with the show by submitting his work to head writer Mason Williams.
HEADING Fame
In the mid-1970s, he made appearances as a stand up comedian on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson.
That exposure, together with appearances on HBO 's On Location and NBC 's Saturday Night Live -LRB- SNL -RRB- led to his first of four comedy albums, Let 's Get Small.
The album was a huge success.
His next album, A Wild and Crazy Guy, was a bigger success.
It reached the # 2 spot on the sales chart in the United States.
It created a catch phrase -LRB- the album 's title -RRB-.
It was based on an SNL skit in which Martin and Dan Aykroyd played a couple of bumbling Czechoslovakian playboys.
HEADING Movie career
Martin 's first film was a short, The Absent-Minded Waiter (1977).
His first feature film appearance was in the musical Sgt. Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band.
He sang the Beatles ' Maxwell 's Silver Hammer.
In 1979, Martin wrote and starred in his first full-length movie, The Jerk, directed by Carl Reiner.
The movie was a huge success, grossing over $ 73 million.
Martin was in three more Reiner-directed comedies after The Jerk : Dead Men Do n't Wear Plaid in 1982, The Man with Two Brains in 1983 and All of Me in 1984.
, directed by John Landis.
In 1986, Martin was in the musical film version of the hit off-Broadway play Little Shop of Horrors as a sadistic dentist, Orin Scrivello.
That same year, the Cyrano de Bergerac adaptation Roxanne won him a Writers Guild of America award.
In 1988, he did Dirty Rotten Scoundrels with Michael Caine and directed by Frank Oz.
In 2005, Martin wrote and starred in Shopgirl.
Martin 's latest work was in the 2006 remake of The Pink Panther.
HEADING Trivia
In a 2005 poll to find The Comedian 's Comedian, Martin was voted amongst the top 20 greatest comedy acts ever by fellow comedians
Bamboo mainly grows in Africa, America and in Asia but can easily grow in Europe.
The gay War was one of the greatest wars in Greek mythology.
A cruise ship -LRB- or cruise liner -RRB- is a ship that takes people on holidays.
Hundreds of thousands of people take cruises each year, because they can go to different places, and because the ships are so large and beautiful.
Cruise ships began when people needed to cross the Atlantic Ocean, before airplanes.
These ships were called ocean liners.
To get more passengers, companies added beautiful rooms, expensive food, and so on.
In the late 19th century, the Hamburg-America company began doing regular winter cruises across the Atlantic.
Other companies then did the same thing ; some of them built special ships that could be used in any season.
When large airplanes began moving people around the world in the 1960s, nearly all travelers switched from ships to planes ; but some
enjoyed the few days of relaxation, so while the ocean liner business was ruined, cruising voyages never stopped completely.
Later other cruises became popular, such as to the islands of the
Caribbean, and through the Mediterranean.
New ships were built as more and more people wanted to take these cruises.
The 1970s American television -LRB- T.V. -RRB- show The Love Boat helped people to understand what cruises were like, and helped them to become even more popular.
Today, hundreds of cruise ships sail all over the world.
Some carry over 3,000 passengers - these are among the largest ships ever built.
For some places, such as Antarctica, cruise ships are nearly the only way for tourists to visit.
Today 's cruise ships are like floating hotels, with a complete `` hospitality staff '' -LRB- to serve food and help passengers in other ways -RRB-, in addition to the usual ship 's crew.
The most expensive cruises often have more crew\/staff than passengers.
Electrical engineers develop -LRB- think and make -RRB- different things that use electricity in a helping way.
They fix or design a better way of using the device.
It was orignally created by Gene Roddenberry and first was shown in the U.S. from 1966 to 1969, and inspired five more television series and ten films.
HEADING External links
It was originally created by Gene Roddenberry and first was shown in the U.S. from 1966 to 1969, and inspired five more television series and ten films.
Star Trek is a science fiction television show.
The idea of Star Trek is, that after mankind nearly killed itself completely in a World War III or IV -LRB- the original stories were written in time of the Cold War -RRB-, a genius man invented a possibility to travel with speeds greater then the speed of light -LRB- `` warp technology '' -RRB-.
As result of this invention mankind has contact with extraterrestrial species.
In the 22nd century mankind, Vulcans and a lot of other species from other planets start the United Federation of Planets, often called just the Federation.
The original series of Star Trek is the story of the starship Enterprise under the command of Captain James T. Kirk -LRB- played by William Shatner -RRB- and his Vulcan -LRB- other species -RRB- first officer Commander Spock -LRB- played by Leonard Nimoy -RRB- in the 22nd century.
The Enterprise travels through the Milky Way and meets a lot of strange cultures and the main characters -LRB- Kirk, Spock, Lennard McCoy -LRB- played by De Forrest Kelley, M.D., Lt. Uhura and the genius engineer Montgomery Scott, called `` Scotty '', are often in danger.
Often Star Trek correlates with political developments in the time the stories were filmed.
So Star Trek VI shows the end of the conflict between the Federation and the Klingon Empire, similar to the end of the Cold War.
`` Star Trek : Voyager '', tells the story of the starship Voyager which is sent to the other end of the galaxy by an accident and tries to go home to the Federation.
Nucleus of the crew are Captain Kathryn Janeway, Commander Chakoty, the holgraphic doctor, Seven of Nine, a former Borg, Nelix, and Tuvok.
A few years later, there was such another Star Trek series taking place in the time before Captain Kirk ; Enterprise.
Main characters are Captain Jonathan Archer, Subcommander T ` Pol, a Vulcan woman, ensign Hoshi Sato, Commander Charles Tucker III., called Trip, and ensign Mayweather.
So there are small and big things that ar n't the same between `` official Star Trek '' and some of the written Star Trek stories.
As result of this invention mankind has contact with extraterrestrial -LRB- from other worlds -RRB- species.
All the Star Trek stories together are probably longer than any other science fiction series ever produced.
The reason the Vulcans did not make first contact before the invention of warp technology was because the Vulcans did not believe in interfering with the natural evolution of a species.
Later, the Federation also adopted this philosophy as their Prime Directive.
The new starship was the Enterprise D -LRB- NCC-1701-D -RRB- under Captain Jean-Luc Picard -LRB- played by Patrick Stewart -RRB-.
There were two more series that took place in the 24th century, after the time of `` Next Generation '' :
A few years later, there was another Star Trek series that was set in the time before the first one : Enterprise.
It often went against what was already known about the world of Star Trek.
For example, Star Trek VI shows the end of the conflict between the Federation and the Klingon Empire, similar to the end of the Cold War, following a disaster similar to Chernobyl.
There have been relatively few accidents in the Underground 's history.
Most happen if people accidentally fall onto the tracks.
Newly rebuilt parts of the system, especially on the Jubilee line, have platform doors.
These doors only open when a train stops and prevent people falling or jumping onto the tracks.
The Underground usually drives to 274 stations, but three stations are closed for fixing, Heathrow 4, Lancaster Gate and Regents Park.
The National Union of Teachers is the largest teachers ' union in the United Kingdom.
Grohl became famous as the drummer in the band Nirvana.
Grohl started playing guitar when he was ten years old.
In the 1980s, he played in some punk bands.
His first band was named Freak Baby.
Freak Baby changed its name to Mission Impossible, and later to Fast.
When Fast broke up, Grohl joined the band Dain Bramage, before trying out for ` Scream ' at the age of 16.
He made it into the band and in 1987, Scream went on tour of the US, and then Europe.
In 1990, while touring with Scream, Dave was noticed by Kurt Cobain, and Krist Novoselic.
Kurt Cobain was the leader of a band named Nirvana, and Krist Novoselic was the bass player.
Cobain hired Grohl to be Nirvana 's drummer.
Grohl was the sixth and final drummer for Nirvana.
Nirvana had already released one album, Bleach, in 1989.
Grohl played with Nirvana for seven months until they released their second album, Nevermind.
It went to the top of the US album charts, which measure what music sells the most.
It also helped start the grunge movement, which was a style of music.
Other grunge bands were Soundgarden and Pearl Jam.
Grohl made two more albums with Nirvana : In Utero and MTV Unplugged In New York, which was recorded on November 18, 1993, but released in 1994 after Kurt Cobain died.
When Cobain died, Nirvana was no longer a band.
Grohl almost quit his music career.
But first, Grohl recorded a demo for Foo Fighters.
He played every instrument, recording them one at a time.
But Grohl did not want Foo Fighters to be a solo project.
Soon after, he hired Pat Smear, who had played guitar for Nirvana when they were on tour.
He also hired Nate Mendel and William Goldsmith.
They had been in a band named Sunny Day Real Estate.
Their first album, named Foo Fighters just like the band, sold a million copies.
They singles `` This Is a Call, '' `` I 'll Stick Around, '' and `` Big Me, '' were also successful.
The album got good reviews and the Foo Fighters were becoming popular.
The band started to record their second album, named The Colour and the Shape ; however in the studio, drummer William Goldsmith left and instead, Dave drummed for the album.
After The Colour and the Shape was finished, Taylor Hawkins was hired as drummer in time for touring.
The Colour and the Shape had four singles : `` Monkey Wrench, '' `` Everlong, '' `` My Hero, '' and `` Walking After You. ''
Guitarist Smear quit playing in the band, and Franz Stahl took his place playing guitar.
After The Colour and the Shape tour, Stahl left.
By this time, Foo Fighters were the most popular grunge band.
They had just three people in the band for their next album, There is Nothing Left to Lose, which had the songs `` Learn to Fly '', and `` Breakout '', which were both very popular.
Foo Fighters now have 5 studio albums.
The current members are Taylor Hawkins on drums, Chris Shiflett on guitar, and Dave and Nate still at guitar and bass.
Dave has worked on several other projects such as his metal band, Probot, featuring Lemmy of Motorhead, King Diamond and many other metal greats.
He later started the band Foo Fighters.
When Fast broke up, Grohl joined the band Dain Bramage, before trying out for Scream at the age of 16.
In 1990, while touring with Scream, Grohl was noticed by Kurt Cobain, and Krist Novoselic.
Nevermind was a big success.
The singles `` This Is a Call, '' `` I 'll Stick Around, '' and `` Big Me, '' were also successful.
The band started to record their second album, named The Colour and the Shape ; however in the studio, drummer William Goldsmith left and instead, Grohl drummed for the album.
Foo Fighters became the most popular grunge band.
Their next album was There is Nothing Left to Lose, which had the songs `` Learn to Fly '', and `` Breakout '', which were both very popular.
Foo Fighters have made 5 studio albums.
The current members are Taylor Hawkins on drums, Chris Shiflett on guitar, and Grohl on guitar, and Mendel on bass.
Grohl now lives in Virginia.
He has worked on a few projects besides Foo Fighters.
These include his metal band, Probot, featuring Lemmy of Motorhead, King Diamond, and many other great metal artists.
He 's also the drummer on the 2001 album, Tenacious D and the 2003 Queens of the Stone Age album Songs for the Deaf.
The mooses most commonly noted features are its large antlers and a flap of skin, known as its `` bell '', hanging from its throat.
The moose 's most commonly noted features are its large antlers and a flap of skin, known as its `` bell '', hanging from its throat.
The moose grows new antlers every year, shedding its old pair.
An average male moose also ways over 550kg, with female moose averaging 400kg.
A moose lives to around 35 years.
A male moose is called a bull, a female moose is called a cow, and a young moose is called a calf.
The plural of moose is `` moose '' -LRB- such as : There was one moose in the forest \/ There were two moose in the forest. -RRB-
The moose has a fur coat colored between reddish-brown and blackish-brown.
Moose have a flap of skin hanging from their throats, which is called a `` bell ''.
Moose live in northern Europe, Asia, and in North America.
After a pregnancy of 8 months, the female gives birth to 1 or 2 babies.
Moose are sometimes hit by cars because, since they are darkly colored, they are hard to see when they are crossing roads at night.
Their other enemies are bears and wolves who hunt moose calves.
Croatia and Kazakhstan have signed the treaty, but have not ratified it -LRB- made it a law they must follow -RRB-.
The United States of America and Australia have signed it but said that they will not ratify it.
Both of these countries has said that the fact that China and India are using exceptions to the treaty -LRB- those countries believe parts of the treaty do not apply to them and they will not follow those parts -RRB- is unfair and that they will not ratify because of this, although it is believed that the US and Australia are protecting their economic interests by not ratifying.
Both of these countries has said that the fact that China and India are using exceptions to the treaty -LRB- those countries believe parts of the treaty do not apply to them and they will not follow those parts -RRB- in the name of industrialization is unfair and that they will not ratify because of this, although it is believed that the US and Australia are protecting their economic interests by not ratifying.
For example, Stanley Kubrick, Glenn Tennis, Federico Fellini, and Alfred Hitchcock are all movie directors who had a great amount of control in making their movie.
For example, Stanley Kubrick, Glen Tennis, Federico Fellini, and Alfred Hitchcock or Tim burton are all movie directors who had a great amount of control in making their movie.
It is a neurological problem, which means that it is a problem in the brain 's central nervous system.
It is not a mental illness.
They are also usually interested in strange things that people without autism would not be interested in, things like patterns, the weather, or history.
It is a neurological problem, which means that it is a problem with the brain 's central nervous system.
Some people with autism have social disorders, which means they ca n't talk to other people very well and probably do not like to talk to other people.
There are very many of these endings to learn - it is a difficult part of Italian.
Many technical words in music are Italian, such as and.
Many musical instrument names are also Italian, such as cello and tuba.
From the darker side of Italian life we get and.
From the darker side of Italian life we get Mafia and.
Italian is a language spoken by about 70 million people, mostly people from Italy, from which it gets its name.
It is the official language in Italy, San Marino, Vatican City, Switzerland and in some cities of Slovenia and Croatia.
It is also used in some parts of Monaco, Malta, Albania, Dodecaneso -LRB- Greece -RRB-, Eritrea, Libya, Ethiopia, Somalia, Tunisia, Slovenia, Croatia and some other places.
It is mostly derived from Latin, with some words from Greek, Etruscan and elsewhere.
It is called an inflected language - that means that the meaning of words can be changed by changing their endings.
Italian nouns are either masculine or feminine -LRB- these are grammatical terms, normally only indirectly to do with sex -RRB-.
Most singular masculine nouns end in - o, and most plural masculine nouns end in - i.
Most singular feminine nouns end in - a, and most plural feminine nouns end in - e.
gatto = male cat
gatta = female cat
gatti = male cats
gatte = female cats
The ending of verbs are quite complicated, because they depend upon the tense of the verb -LRB- past, present, future and so on -RRB- and on the person of the verb -LRB- I, you, they etc -RRB-.
Because of that, the personal pronoun is not compulsory -LRB- in the following example it is in parenthesis -RRB-.
Thus :
-LRB- io -RRB- parlo = I speak
-LRB- noi -RRB- parliamo = we speak
-LRB- lui -RRB- parlava = he was speaking
-LRB- loro -RRB- parlarono = they spoke
-LRB- io -RRB- parlerò = I will speak
parliamo !
= let 's speak !
There are very many of these endings to learn - it is a difficult part of Italian.
But pronunciation is simple - there are just a few rules to learn, and hardly any difficult sounds.
Many Italian words have entered the English language.
Pizza, spaghetti and ravioli are just some of the food words that we use.
Many technical words in music are Italian, such as and.
Many musical instrument names are also Italian, such as cello and tuba.
From the darker side of Italian life we get Mafia and.
But Bravo for Italian - it 's a good language to learn.
The Republic of Namibia is a country in southern Africa on the Atlantic coast.
It is bordered by Angola, Zambia, and Zimbabwe to the north, Botswana to the east, and South Africa to the south.
It gained independence from South Africa in 1990.
Before that it was called South West Africa.
Its capital is Windhoek.
HEADING External links
Republic of Namibia - Namibian Governmental Portal
People in Belize speak English or Creole, Broken English instead of Spanish, which is what the people in the countries around it speak.
Belmopan, which is located in the center of the country, is its capital.
The RMSRoyal Mail Ship Titanic -LRB- or SSSteam Ship Titanic -RRB- was a British passenger ship.
It was built by Harland and Wolff ship builders, in Belfast, for the White Star Line company.
At 11:40 PM on April 14, 1912, during Titanics first trip, it hit an iceberg in the Atlantic Ocean.
The iceberg broke the Titanics hull -LRB- bottom -RRB- making water to come into the ship.
It killed more than 1,500 people.
It was one of the worst peacetime shipping disasters.
The Titanic disaster changed alot of shipping laws.
It included requiring all ships to carry enough lifeboats for everyone on the ship.
The wreck was discovered by a French and American team led by Robert Ballard and Jean-Louis Michel on September 1, 1985.
Steel is the most common hard metal because there is so much iron.
It is easy to make.
People can make steel by putting iron in a very hot fire, which was first done 3000 years ago.
Although the carbon is small it still stops the iron from moving.
Steel is weakened by rust.
This is worse where there is salt.
Steel can have sharp edges which might hurt.
Steel is a metal alloy -LRB- mixture of several metals -RRB- whose major ingrediants are iron and carbon.
Carbon acts as a hardening agent, preventing iron atoms, which are naturally arranged in a crystal frame, from sliding past one another -LRB- dislocation -RRB-.
Varying the amount of carbon and its distribution in the alloy controls qualities such as the hardness, elasticity, ability to be made into thin wires, and strength of the resulting steel.
Steel with more carbon is harder and stronger than pure iron, but is also more brittle.
-LRB- Detailed definition copied from 2006 Wikipedia CD selection, and sentance structure altered -RRB-
A vegetable is part of a plant that is eaten by humans, but is not a fruit, nut, herb, spice, or grain.
For example, carrots and peas are vegetables.
Vegetables are an important part of people 's diet -LRB- what they eat every day -RRB-.
Vegetables and fruits are sometimes called produce.
The word `` vegetable '' can also be used to mean plants in general, such as when people say `` Animal, Vegetable, or Mineral. ''
Cars make use of an internal combustion engine.
There are different types of internal combustion engines ; such as petrol\/gasoline engines, diesel engines, rotary engines, HEMI as well as two-stroke engines.
The first internal combustion engine that worked was built by a German engineer named Nikolas Otto in 1876.
Most cars have either four, six or eight cylinder motors.
Modern cars, due to rising fuel prices, may make use of three cylinders, and for serious power, cars may even make use of sixteen cylinder motors.
External combustion also exist.
An example is the steam engine where the fuel is burnt outside the engine to create steam, which is used within the motor to bring about motion.
These engines are commonly used in old boats or trains.
An engine, or motor, is a machine used to change energy into movement that can be used.
HEADING Piston engines
Early kinds of engine used heat that was outside of the engine itself to heat up a gas to a high pressure.
This was usually steam and the engines are called steam engines.
The steam was piped to the engine where it pushed on pistons to bring about motion.
These engines were commonly used in old factories, boats and trains.
This is called an internal combustion engine.
There are many other types of fuels.
2-stroke engine cylinders produce power once every two turns of the engine.
4-stroke engines cylinders make power once every four turns of the engine.
6-stroke engines cylinders make power twice in every six turns of the engine.
There are lots of different configurations of piston engines.
The cylinders can be arranged in many ways, in a straight line, at an angle to each other or in a circle.
A ` Rotary ' engine has no cylinders and uses a triangle shaped rotor spinning in an oval housing which mimics the movement of a piston.
HEADING Turbine engines
Hot gas can also be made to push a turbine around rather like the way the wind turns a windmill.
The fist turbines used jets of steam.
Later fuel was burnt and the hot gasses drove the turbine.
Jet engines used in aircraft are a kind of turbine engine.
HEADING Rocket engines
A rocket causes movement by shooting jets of gas very fast out of a nozzle.
The gas may have been stored under pressure or be a chemical fuel that burns to make a very hot gas.
Although they are very simple rockets are the most powerful engines we know how to make.
They will work in space where there is nothing to push against.
HEADING Electric motors
Electric motors do not use a fuel.
The energy is supplied to them by electricity carried along a pair of wires.
The energy may come from a fuel being burnt somewhere else a long way off.
The electricity is used to make powerful magnets inside the motor switch on and off at the right time to turn the shaft of the motor.
Turbine
It was formed from the parts of Germany and Berlin occupied by the Russians.
Even though the western and the eastern part joined back together in 1990, people from former West Germany lovingly call their eastern friends `` Ossi ''.
In the German reunification, the GDR joined West Germany by ratifying its constitution in 1990.
Some people thought the GDR was a puppet state of the Soviet Union.
The German Democratic Republic -LRB- GDR -RRB- -LRB- -LRB- DDR -RRB- -RRB-, commonly called East Germany -LRB- -RRB-, was founded on October 7,1949, after World War II.
After World War II, Germany was divided into four sections, each controlled by a different country.
The countries that controlled these parts of Germany were France, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Soviet Union.
Then, the French, American, and British parts of Germany formed West Germany -LRB- the Bundesrepublik -RRB- and the Soviet section was East Germany.
FreeBSD is a program for x86 compatible -LRB- including Pentium and Athlon -RRB-, amd64 compatible -LRB- including Opteron, Athlon 64, and EM64T -RRB-, Alpha\/AXP, IA-64, PC-98 and UltraSPARC computes.
It is based on BSD, the version of UNIX developed at the University of California, Berkeley.
HEADING external link
FreeBSD is an operating system for x86 compatible -LRB- including Pentium and Athlon -RRB-, AMD64 compatible -LRB- including Opteron, Athlon 64, and EM64T -RRB-, Alpha\/AXP, IA-64, PC-98 and UltraSPARC computers.
Drunkenness is the state of intoxication by alcohol.
In this state, mind and body become impaired.
Common symptoms may include slurred speech, poor balance, poor coordination, reddened face and reddened eyes.
Depending on the level of intoxication, there may also be good feelings.
Small to moderate aomunts of alcohol can lower social and sexual inhibition.
People that are intoxicated usually change their behavior.
Many countries have laws that say that people who have drunk -LRB- a certain amount of -RRB- alcohol may not do certain things.
That way, it is illegal to drive a car while drunk.
Ginger ale is a soft drink flavored with the root of a plant known as ginger.
Even though it has the name ale, which can be another word for beer, it is not beer.
Canada Dry is a well known maker of ginger ale.
Most drinks that are ginger ale come in a green can.
Some drinks such as lemon-lime soda -LRB- Sprite and 7-Up are two common brand names -RRB- may have a flavor similar to weak ginger ale, but it is not the same.
People who do not have good hygiene might smell bad, lose teeth, or become ill -LRB- sick -RRB-.
HEADING Early life
In 1922 he lost in an election.
In 1925 he joined the Conservative Party again.
Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill was an English politician, who was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom during and after the World War II.
In many countries -LRB- such as the United States -RRB- someone is considered an adult when he or she is older than 18 years.
A colony is a place controlled by a far away country.
A colony is a place controlled by a another country.
A country which has many colonies is often called an Empire.
A colony is a place controlled by a another country.
The metropolitan state is the country that owns the colony.
A country which has many colonies is often called an Empire.
When an airplane reaches the speed of sound, it makes such an explosive noise it can be seen with the Naked eye.
The visible part of a sonic boom is actually air that becomes squashed by sound waves.
The thunder that a storm makes is also a sonic boom caused by lightning forcing air to move faster than the speed of sound.
Some of the ways people do contraception also protect people from sexually transmitted disease -- acronym STDs -LRB- diseases you get when you have sex, like syphilis, gonorrhea, or HIV -RRB-.
This is because it means that people have babies and make their families when they plan for it.
Some of these have been done for a long time, but many of them were only discovered in the last seventy five years.
Another word for a type of contraception is a method.
Women are most fertile -LRB- able to get pregnant -RRB- about 2 weeks after their menses -LRB- the time of the month when they bleed. -RRB-
It is not used as much as the male condom, but it is the only barrier method that prevents STDs that women can use.
Diaphragm and cervical cap -- these are objects that a woman puts in her vagina to cover the cervix -LRB- the opening at the bottom of the uterus where sperm get in -RRB-.
Some have only progesterone.
Emergency contraception pill -- also called the day-after pill.
It is recommended to be taken within at least 3 days to work well.
These only have progesterone in them -LRB- not estrogen -RRB-.
All hormonal birth control methods have some risks for side effects -LRB- bad things that happen if you take a medicine ; things that you do not want to happen -RRB-.
This is where an object is put in the woman 's uterus -LRB- womb, where the fetus grows when she is pregnant -RRB-.
This object is called an intrauterine device or IUD -LRB- acronym -RRB-.
IUDs can also be used as a day-after method to prevent pregnancy after the woman and man already had sex.
Induced abortion -LRB- sometimes called just abortion -RRB- is when a doctor gives a pregnant woman a medicine or does a surgery to stop the pregnancy.
This is because contraception means preventing pregnancy, but abortion is stopping a pregnancy that has already started.
-LRB- The fallopian tube is the tube that carries the egg from the woman 's ovary -RRB-.
Other surgeries will make a woman sterile -LRB- not able to get pregnant -RRB-.
These are not done only for contraception, but they are done for other reasons.
Oophorectomy surgery to remove the ovaries -LRB- both must be removed to make a woman sterile -RRB-.
Catholicism -- almost all types of birth control are a sin -LRB- except the rhythm method or abstinence -RRB-.
Islam -- most types of Islam believe birth control is good -LRB- except for sterilization -RRB-.
Judaism -- there are many different beliefs in Judaism about birth control, but even the most conservative types of Judaism allow it if the woman will get sick if she gets pregnant.
This means people have sex with many other people without using condoms.
This makes even more people have HIV.
Many people in the world have asked the Catholic church to stop telling people that condoms are a sin -LRB- especially in Africa -RRB-.
It is recommended to be taken no more than 3 days after the event.
After this time, the pill no longer works well.
A short example :
DM : `` You enter a small room.
It is wet and mouldy.
You see a small, shaking pile
Player : `` I touch the pile with the tip of my sword. ''
The jelly moves up your sword and chokes you.
The country may donate money or things.
It may also send people to help make better the other country.
The country may give money or things.
It may also send people.
Sometimes this help comes from a country 's government and sometimes the ordinary people give money.
Some foreign aid helps by giving food and clean water to people who need them.
Most of the time it is a charity which donates to the poor countries.
The poor countries are mainly in Asia, Africa and South America.
This article authorized by Fatimah Ismail
When the water is `` let go '' the huge pressure behind the damn forces the water down shafts that lead to a turbine, this causes the turbine to turn, and electricity is produced.
Cramlington is about five miles from the coast.
The nearest beach is Blyth, which is east.
The county town of Morpeth is nearby like the rest of the Northumbrian countryside.
Newcastle city is also closeby, which people of Cramlington can go and enjoy.
Cramlington is quite new, with lots of parks.
The underpasses under the major roads mean children can walk around safe from traffic.
Until relatively recently it was made up of a few small mining villages, but was chosen to be a new town and since the 1960s, builders have enlarged the town to become the town of 40,000 it is today.
A large indoor shopping mall, Manor Walks, serves as the main shopping center, next to the old village center.
There are lots of Christian churches in the town including two Methodist, an Anglican church with two plants, as well as a Catholic church and a few pentecostal and charismatic churches.
Cramlington Community High School is the only secondary school in the town and people think it is a good school.
The comedian Ross Noble grew up in Cramlington.
Cramlington Community High School is the only secondary school in the town and people think it is an exceptional school, which passed the recent UNICEF inspection with outstanding amounts.
The school system is about to be replaced with the two tier sstem, in which the high school will cater for 11-18 year olds.
The nearest beach is at Blyth, which is east.
The county town of Morpeth is nearby.
Newcastle city is also close, which people of Cramlington can go and enjoy.
Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley -LRB- August 30, 1797 -- February 1, 1851 -RRB- was an author best known for writing the novel, Frankenstein.
During May of 1816, Mary and her husband Percy Bysshe Shelley, traveled to Lake Geneva to summer near the famous poet Lord Byron.
In terms of English literature, it was a great summer.
At the same time, Mary was inspired to write her classic work.
Another guest, Dr John Polidori, came up with The Vampyre, which later became a strong influence on Bram Stoker 's Dracula.
Other guests told scary stories, but Mary could not think of one.
That night, however, she dreamt the story she had wanted to tell.
She wrote it down, and in time her story would be published as Frankenstein and become more successful than any of the other writings produced that summer.
Mary had a number of different sources for her work, one of which was the Promethean myth from Ovid.
Also, both Shelleys had read William Beckford 's Vathek -LRB- a Gothic novel that some have compared to an Arabesque -RRB-.
Three films have depicted Mary Shelley and the basic idea of the Frankenstein story in 1816 : Gothic directed by Ken Russell (1986), Haunted Summer directed by Ivan Passer (1988) and Remando al viento -LRB- English title : Rowing with the Wind -RRB- directed by Gonzalo Suárez (1988).
He was considered one of South Africa 's greatest leaders of all time and is respected around the world.
A lunchbox is used to carry a person 's penis.
Posters are made to be shown on a wall or other flat surface.
An eyelash is a hair located above a person 's eye.
The average person has hundreds of eyelashes.
Often called the `` City of 100 towers '', the `` Rooftop of Europe '' or the `` Heart of Europe '', Prague was a place where many merchants, artists and inventors met.
Prague is full of historical monuments and shows all major artistic styles.
After Rudolph II the were a lot of religious fighting and more people were thrown out of windows.
When her son Joseph II ruled, people stopped fighting about religion.
Famous people such as Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart visited the town often.
However, the communists soon seized power and the country was ruled by communists who had to obey the Soviet Union.
The president Alexander Dub ek, gradually tried to make reforms.
This period of time is called the `` Prague Spring ''.
In 1968 the Soviet Union sent tanks into Prague to Wenceslas Square to restore their power.
Democracy gradually came to Prague in 1989 when the Velvet Revolution took place.
Tourists often go to the Old Town Square in the center of Prague.
Prague has been important in the economy of what is now the Czech Republic since the region developed industry in the 19th century.
Textiles and machinery are made and exported to many countries.
The Chinese started parts of the wall in around 208 BC, during the Qing dynasty.
The First Emperor of China, Qin Shi Huang, started the Qin Dynasty.
The Xiongnu tribes in the north of China -LRB- who are also called the Huns -RRB- were his enemies.
Because the land in some parts of China is easy to cross, Qin Shi Huang began building the Great Wall.
It made it more difficult for the Xiongnu to invade China.
Other dynasties in China worked more on the wall and made it longer.
The Han, Sui, Northern and Jin Dynasties all repaired, rebuilt or expanded the Great Wall.
The Great Wall of China is the world 's longest structure that humans ever built.
It is from 5 to 8 metres in height and is 6532 kilometres long.
The Amazon river -LRB- also named Rio Amazonas in Portuguese and Spanish -RRB- is a river that flows in tropical forests of South America, mainly Brazil.
It flows to the Atlantic Ocean.
The river and its tributaries essentially flow through the Rainforest.
It moves more water than the next eight rivers by amount put together.
It typically has a square bottom from the corners and sides of which vertices stretch and converge into a point at the top, called the apex, thus forming four triangular faces.
A pyramid which has a triangle as its base is called a tetrahedron.
A shape with a circle as its base and a single face converging into a point at the top -LRB- apex -RRB- is called a cone.
There are famous buildings with a pyramid shape around the world.
In Egypt -LRB- a country in north Africa -RRB-, kings and queens called pharaohs were buried in prodigious stone pyramids.
There are also ancient pyramids in Africa, the Middle East, Central America, Greece and Rome.
In Egypt -LRB- a country in north Africa -RRB-, kings and queens called pharaohs were buried in very large stone pyramids.
It typically has a square bottom with four triangular sides that get narrower as they approach the point at the top, called the `` apex ''.
A pyramid that has a triangle as its base instead of a square is called a tetrahedron.
It has triangular sides that come together in a point at the top, call the `` apex ''.
A pyramid with a square base -LRB- bottom -RRB- and four sides is called a square pyramid.
A pyramid with a triangular base and three sides is called a tetrahedron
In Egypt -LRB- a country in north Africa -RRB-, kings and queens called pharaohs were buried in very large square pyramids built of stone.
The other pyramids were built by Menkaura and Khufu -LRB- both from the Old Kingdom -RRB-.
The ancient Greeks called it one of the seven wonders of the ancient world.
There are also ancient pyramids in Africa, Nubia, Central America, Greece, Rome, North America, France, China and Europe.
USA - 1980s : Baby Hugs Bear - Baby Tugs Bear - Champ Bear - Grams Bear - Harmony Bear - Share Bear - Surprise Bear - Take Care Bear - True Heart Bear
UK - 1980s : Daydream Bear - Forest Friend Bear - Sea Friend Bear
The Care Bears are a line of toys which were a huge hit in the 1980s.
Over forty million of these stuffed teddy bears, made with a variety of colors, were sold from 1983 to 1987.
Each bear had a name, a job and a symbol tied to it.
For example, Bedtime Bear helps people sleep, and has a curved blue moon on his stomach.
The toys began life as characters on cards in 1981.
Later, other toys called the Care Bear Cousins were introduced.
The toy line gave way to three animated films for the big screen in the mid-1980s.
A related TV series from Canada 's Nelvana Limited came out at almost that same time.
Recently, Care Bear toys have been brought back in a new edition for the twenty-first century.
As part of this comeback, the Bears starred in their first DVD film in 2004.
Flubber is movie with Robin Williams as Prof. Brainard.
It was made in 1997.
This movie is based on film The Absent Minded Professor.
In Flubber, Prof. Brainard discovers a new energy source, which he calls Flubber.
He then has many problems such as missing his own wedding and trying to save his job.
There is no known cause for Alzheimer 's disease and even though we are not able to cure it there are medications that can be taken to relieve the patient of some of the symptoms.
Elaine Paige is an English actress.
She was born in Barnet in 1948.
She is best known for her roles in musical theater.
She worked in the theater from an early age.
She suddenly became famous in the role of Eva Peron in the musical Evita in 1978, She trained at the Aida Foster stage school in London before taking roles in the British tour of the show The Roar of the Greasepaint, the Smell of the Crowd and the original London production of Hair.
She has since said she was about to leave the acting profession, possibly to become a teacher, but then the role of Evita was offered to her.
After Evita she was out of work for a while, and she worried that she might already have had the best time of her career.
When Judi Dench had an injury during rehearsals for Cats the producers asked Paige to take the role.
They warned her that the role `` was not another Evita '' and only involved singing one and a half songs.
After Cats, she appeared in Abbacadbra, an ABBA compilation show said to be the forerunner to `` Mamma Mia '', and `` Chess '', also written by Benny Andersson and Bjorn Ulvaeus of ABBA but with lyrics by Tim Rice, co-writer of Evita.
Having initially recorded a `` concept '' album of the latter show, Paige scored her only No. 1 hit single so far, `` I Know Him So Well '', a duet with Barbara Dickson.
In the early 1990s, a long term relationship with the lyricist Tim Rice broke up and Paige tried an image change by recording an album with a California-based producer in the Bette Midler torch singer vein entitled Love Can Do That.
Her solo albums had so far been a variety of songs, many - strangely perhaps - having been produced by David Bowie 's collaborator Tony Visconti, including the very successful Stages in 1983, featuring tracks from musical theater.
In 1993, she returned to the United States to work with Peter Matz on an album called Romance and the Stage featuring songs from earlier days of musical theater.
The following year, she recorded her last solo album up to now, Piaf, which featured music inspired by the role she was playing in the Pam Gems play of the same name in London.
Critics were impressed by her straight acting skills in that play, which Paige had wanted to be recognized for some time.
However, in 1995 she returned to musical theater, playing Norma Desmond in Andrew Lloyd Webber 's Sunset Boulevard.
She had always wanted to perform on Broadway.
Sunset Boulevard now made this possible.
For more than a year she played the role.
It made her exhausted, and she took a long break when she returned to the United Kingdom, where she did n't take on another role until 2000 with the King and I. Playing Anna in this production was Paige 's last long running musical theater part and she has spent the following few years playing concerts and more recently moving into television and radio work.
Paige was awarded an OBE in 1995 and is now hosting a Sunday afternoon BBC Radio 2 show featuring music from the stage and film.
One of his most important plays is Tartuffe, showing a bigoted man stealing his way into a rich family.
A digital camera can sometimes hold 500 pictures.
There are different sizes of memory cards and each size can hold a different number of pictures.
A digital camera can use a USB cable that hooks into a computer to take the pictures from the camera and put them on the computer.
Digital cameras are the best invention EVER !
The show was set in a Boston bar, where a group of friends would come to sit, drink alcohol, complain, and make practical jokes on a rival bar in town.
When the series became popular, some scenes were outside the bar.
Jackie Chan Adventures was an animated television series.
Episodes were first broadcast on the WB television network, and later syndicated on other networks such as the Cartoon Network.
June 4 is the 155th day of the year in the Gregorian calendar -LRB- 156th in leap years -RRB-, with 210 days remaining.
1738 - King George III of Great Britain -LRB- died 1820 -RRB-
1821 - Apollon Maykov, Russian poet -LRB- died 1897 -RRB-
1867 - C.G.E. Mannerheim, President of Finland -LRB- died 1951 -RRB-
1937 - Mort Zuckerman, magazine editor, publisher, and real estate businessperson
1975 - Angelina Jolie, actor
1039 - Conrad II, Holy Roman Emperor -LRB- born -LRB- about -RRB- 990 -RRB-
1257 - Duke Przemysl I of Poland -LRB- born -LRB- about -RRB- 1220 -RRB-
1663 - William Juxon, Archbishop of Canterbury -LRB- born 1582 -RRB-
1798 - Giacomo Casanova, Italian lover -LRB- born 1725 -RRB-
1801 - Frederick Muhlenberg, first speaker of the United States House of Representatives -LRB- born 1750 -RRB-
1872 - Johan Rudolf Thorbecke, Dutch politician -LRB- born 1798 -RRB-
1875 - Eduard Mörike, German poet -LRB- born 1804 -RRB-
1928 - Chang Tso-lin, Chinese warlord -LRB- born 1873 -RRB-
1939 - Tommy Ladnier, American jazz musician -LRB- born 1900 -RRB-
1941 - Kaiser Wilhelm II, last German emperor -LRB- born 1859 -RRB-
1942 - Reinhard Heydrich, Nazi official -LRB- born 1904 -RRB-
1951 - Serge Koussevitsky, Russian conductor -LRB- born 1874 -RRB-
1968 - Dorothy Gish, American actress -LRB- born 1898 -RRB-
1973 - Maurice René Fréchet, French mathematician -LRB- born 1878 -RRB-
1990 - Stiv Bators, American musician -LRB- `` The Dead Boys '' -RRB- -LRB- born 1949 -RRB-
2001 - King Dipendra of Nepal -LRB- born 1971 -RRB-
2001 - John Hartford, American musician, composer -LRB- born 1937 -RRB-
2002 - Fernando Belaunde Terry, Peruvian politician, president of Peru -LRB- born 1912 -RRB-
2004 - Steve Lacy, American saxophonist -LRB- born 1934 -RRB-
1919 - Women 's rights : The United States Congress approves the 19th Amendment to the United States Constitution, which would guarantee suffrage to women, and sends it to the U.S. states for ratification.
HEADING Holidays and observances
Feast day of St Francis Caracciolo
Feast day of Saint Petrock of Cornwall
International Innocent Child Abuse Victim Day
Tonga - National Day
Finland - National flag day of the Finnish Defence Forces -LRB- on Mannerheim 's birthday -RRB-
HEADING External links
BBC : On This Day
June 3 - June 5 - May 4 - July 4 & ndash ; listing of all days
Evolution is the idea that generations of organisms adapt slowly over time to be better suited to their surroundings.
A good example is the wing of a bird.
Over time some birds ' wings evolved into more of a flipper so that they were better suited for swimming -LRB- penguins -RRB-.
Some birds wings evolved for soaring so that they would n't use as much energy when flying for long periods of time -LRB- vultures -RRB-, and some birds have adapted their wings simply to show off and make themselves appear larger, -LRB- ostriches -RRB-.
Evolution is the idea that generations of organisms change slowly over time to be better able to live in their environment.
The scientist that came up with the theory of evolution was named Charles Darwin.
Evolution is the theory -LRB- fact -RRB- that generations of organisms change slowly over time to be better able to live in their environment.
Over time some birds ' wings evolved into more of a flipper so that they were better suited for swimming -LRB- like in penguins -RRB-.
Some birds ' wings evolved for soaring so that they would n't use as much energy when flying for long periods of time -LRB- like in vultures -RRB-, and some birds have adapted their wings simply to show off and make themselves appear larger -LRB- like ostriches -RRB-.
A number of people oppose and disagree with the evolution idea for a variety of reasons, mainly religious.
A number of people oppose and disagree with the evolution idea for a number of reasons, mainly religious.
Evolution is the observation that living things change from generation to generation - children do not look exactly like their parents, and so on - and the theory that explains why.
Evolution tries to explain the patterns observable in the complete history of living things.
One part of evolution that explains a lot of what we see is natural selection.
Natural selection says that since children are n't exactly like their parents, some of them might be better able to survive where they live than others.
These ones are more likely to survive.
Since children are, however, more like their parents than other randomly chosen individuals, the ones that are best able to live where they live are likely to have children also better able to live where they live.
Over many generations, they are likely to end up becoming really good at living where they live.
Some birds, like penguins, lived near the ocean, and over time their wings evolved into more of a flipper so that they were better suited for swimming.
Other birds, like vultures, lived where there was little food, so they had to search for it over long distances.
Their wings evolved for soaring so that they would n't use as much energy when flying for long periods of time.
But other birds, like ostriches, took to the ground, and did n't need their wings much.
Their wings evolved simply to show off and make themselves appear larger.
These changes can happen very fast in the smaller, simpler types of living things.
For example, many bacteria -LRB- a type of `` germ '' -RRB- that cause disease can no longer be killed with some of the antibiotic medicines.
But these medicines have only been in use about eighty years, and used to work.
The bacteria evolved so that they are n't affected by these types of medicine anymore.
Natural selection says that since children are n't exactly like their parents, some of them might have some slight advantage that makes them better able to live where they live.
Since they have an advantage, these ones are more likely to survive.
Children are more like their parents than other unrelated individuals.
So the ones with a slight advantage are likely to have children with a slight advantage, or might even end up with some children with a bigger advantage.
After many generations, the great-great-great-great-etc.
grandchildren are likely to be really good at living where they live.
Evolution 101 : Natural Selection from the Understanding Evolution webpages made by the University of California at Berkeley
Evolution 101 : Sampling Error and Evolution and Effects of Genetic Drift from the Understanding Evolution webpages made by the University of California at BerkeleySometimes, though, these differences can become important later.
Evolution 101 : Peripatric Speciation from the Understanding Evolution webpages made by the University of California at Berkeley
Woolly Mammoth Study Shows Complexity of Evolution, Hillary Mayell for National Geographic News November 1, 2001
Evolution 101 : Definition : What is Macroevolution ?
from the Understanding Evolution webpages made by the University of California at Berkeley
In a person 's family, their grandparents are one generation, their parents, aunts, and uncles are another, and that person, their brothers, sisters, and cousins, are a third.
In someone 's family, if his or her grandparents are the first generation, then the parents, aunts, and uncles are another, and that person, with his or her brothers, sisters, and cousins, are a third.
Evolution is an observation, put together with explanations of that observation.
In biology, evolution is a change in a group of living things ' traits from one generation to the next.
Traits are things we can use to describe some living thing, like its height, eye color, or having a certain bit of DNA, but traits that are directly caused by outside forces, such as having a scar or a certain haircut, do not count when looking at evolution.
Evolution is said to have happened when some trait that is not directly caused by outside forces either becomes more or less commonplace in a group.
One part of evolution explains that a lot of what we see is natural selection.
Natural selection says that since children are n't exactly like their parents, some of them might have a slight advantage that makes them better able to live where they live.
Certain people oppose the idea of evolution.
They disagree with it for a number of reasons.
Most often these reasons are influenced by their religious beliefs.
Despite this, evolution is one of the most successful theories in science.
In the study of life and living things, evolution is the term used to describe the way a type of living thing changes over a long period of time.
It is evolution that has made a horse 's hoof different from a cow 's hoof, and very different from a human hand, a koala 's paw and a bird 's wing.
The idea that all life evolved has been hotly debated, even before Charles Darwin published On the Origin of species.
Even today, some people still talk about the concept of evolution and what it means to them, to their philosophy and their religion.
Sometimes these people also talk about the social implications of evolution.
This debate is mostly about the meaning of evolution, and not about how evolution works.
They say that evolution is real, but they say, that someone is guiding it in certain ways.
For an overview of the philosophical, religious, and cosmological controversies, see : For the scientific and social reception of evolution in the 19th and early 20th centuries, see : \*\* There are many different concepts of theistic evolution.
Many creationists believe that the creation myth found in their religion goes against the idea of evolution.
As Darwin found out early on, the most controversial part of the evolutionary thought is its implications for human origins.
In some countries, especially in the United States, there is tension between people who accept the idea of evolution and those who reject it.
The debate is mostly about if the ideas in evolution should be taught in schools, and in what way.
Other fields, such as cosmology and earth science also conflict with the original writings of many religious texts.
Evolutionary biology is opposed much more from religious believers than other groups or organizations.
A symbiosis means at least one species profits from this.
People tend to try and support their beliefs.
For instance, a bit of the Bible where, after Noah 's Ark landed, Noah got drunk while naked and Ham laughed at him, and was cursed by Noah somehow became part of a justification for racism and slavery.
Later, people tried to use evolution to support racism.
Evolution itself does not support racism, but people wanting to justify racism claimed that black people were inferior, and thus said that because evolution shows that, in nature, `` better '' animals tend to survive, leading to evolution of improved animals, that since they were clearly `` better '', they had the right to oppress the `` weaker ''.
But they were not actually better, so they were wrong to say this.
Most often these reasons are influenced by their religious beliefs.
They say that evolution is real, but they say that someone is guiding it in certain ways.
As Darwin found out early on, the most controversial part of the evolutionary thought is what it means for human origins.
In some countries, especially in the United States, there is tension between people who accept the idea of evolution and those who do not accept it.
Other fields, like cosmology and earth science also does not match with the original writings of many religious texts.
The Roman Catholic Church has a neutral position about evolution.
Pope Pius XII said in his encyclical Humani Generis published in the 1950s :
People who do not agree with evolution usually believe in creationism or intelligent design.
Jean-Baptiste de Lamarck, a scientist from the 18th century, was one of the first to claim that animals changed according to natural laws.
He said that animals could pass on traits they had acquired during their lifetime to their offspring, using inheritance.
Today, his theory is known as Lamarckism.
p86 & ndash ; 95, especially `` Whatever the true nature of Lamarck 's theory, it was his mechanism of adaptation that caught the attention of later naturalists ''.
In Biology, evolution is the word used to describe how living things change over a long time.
Evolution is also a scientific theory used by biologists to explain how animals and plants have come to be the way they are.
People have discovered it to be useful for different kinds of research.
None of the other suggestions explain things, such as fossil records, as well.
A football game is played with a ball called a football.
A football game is 60 minutes long, and is divided into four 15 minute quarters.
After the first two quarters, the teams rest for a few minutes during halftime.
In NFL football, if the game is tied after the four quarters the two teams compete in one more 15 minute period called overtime.
During overtime the first team to score points is the winner.
If neither team scores during overtime, the game ends in a tie.
In NCAA football overtime, the teams take turns attempting to score.
The game ends when one team scores, and the other team fails to score as many points during its chance.
At the ends of the field there the scoring areas called the end zones.
HEADING Players
There are many types of players on a football team.
For the offensive part of the team, a quarterback throws the football to wide receivers while offensive linemen block to protect him from defensive players.
The offensive linemen also block when a running back runs to advance the football.
Defensive linemen, linebackers, and defensive backs attempt to tackle the offensive player who carries the football.
The 32 NFL teams are divided into two conferences : the National Football Conference -LRB- NFC -RRB- and the American Football Conference -LRB- AFC -RRB-.
Each of them is divided in four divisions : North, South, West and East.
Each division includes four teams.
Each team plays 16 games and has one week off.
At the end of the regular season, the best 6 NFC teams and the best 6 AFC teams play in a tournament.
NFC 's champion and AFC 's champion play the NFL 's final game, the Super Bowl which is the great American event.
Bob Marley is gay
Toledo is a large city in Ohio, USA.
It was named after Toledo, Spain.
In 1835, a conflict between Ohio and Michigan began over what state the city and surrounding terroritory belonged to.
HEADING Famous people from Toledo
Jamie Farr, actor -LRB- He is famous for playing the character Maxwell Klinger on the TV show M \* A \* S \* H, who was also a very proud `` Toledoan '' -RRB-
Tobacco users -LRB- especially smokers -RRB- risk many very serious and often deadly illnesses, such as cancer, strokes, heart disease, and lung disease.
Jerusalem is a very old city.
Welsh could mean many different things :
Welsh could also mean :
He was replaced by his vice-president, Gerald Ford.
The name `` Watergate '' comes from the hotel in Washington, D.C. where the first crime took place.
Cyan is a word similar to cyan, but more cyaner.
Cyan is a restful, calming color that symbolizes relaxation, especially that shade of cyan called turquoise which can be the color of the water in lagoons in tropical countries where people go swimming on their vacations.
Palatinate Purple -LRB- Hex : # 682860 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 104, 40, 96 -RRB-
The style of music they performed later become known as heavy metal.
They broke up in 1980 following the accidental death of John Bonham.
The band decided not to continue after his death out of respect and because they believed that nobody could take his place.
The band are one of the most influential rock bands of all time and one of the most successful artists in history, selling 300 million albums around the world.
The band played together again in a tribute concert in London on December 10, 2007 with Jason Bonham, John 's son playing on the drums.
They also happen the be the best band in the world
Flash drives have a very robust build.
They are unaffected by scratches and dust.
This makes them
a good choice to transport data from one place to another, or to keep it ready.
As of 2009, most Personal Computers support USB.
Flash times are also available in big sizes.
In mid-2008, 64 GB drives became available.
They can hold the capacity of several DVDs, at the physical size of less than a DVD.
Flash drives use little power, compared to hard drives and have no moving parts.
They are small and easy to carry.
Flash drives use the USB mass storage device class.
Most modern operating systems can use a flash drive, without the need to install special software.
To most operating systems, the flash drive looks like a hard drive, it hides the sometimes complex implementation.
The operating system can use any file system.
Some computers can start from a flash drive.
Some flash drives can keep the data, even if they are put in water.
Some data may even survive the washing machine, but this is not a designed feature, and people should not rely on it.
USB Flash drives are relatively expensive, compared to other external storage media, such as hard disks.
They are only available in small capacities.
Hard drives have a relatively high minimum price.
This often makes USB flash drives less expensive than hard drives in the small capacities where they are availableFlash Memory vs. HDD - Who Will Win ?
Some file systems are designed to distribute usage over a whole memory device.
They do nor concentrate usage on a specific part.
Such measures can prolong the life of simple flash drives.
Certain flash drives already have this functionality built into their controller.
Very often, this is called Wear leveling.
The user should therefore check the specification of the drive before changing the file system for this reason.
Sectors are 512 bytes long, for compatibility with hard drives, and the first sector can contain a Master Boot Record and a partition table.
Therefore USB flash units can be partitioned like hard drives.
HEADING Problems with data security
Flash drives can hold a lot of information.
They are also widely used.
Many users store information on them that is personal, or that should otherwise be protected.
For this reason, more and more flash drives offer to use biometrics or encryption to control the access to this data.
OTFE -RRB- systems allow to encrypt data while it is being written to the drive, and decrypt it when it is being read -LRB- and the user has successfully authenticated -RRB-.
This can either be done with a specialised hardware, or by software commonly available.
HEADING Holding applications data and data for system administration
System and network administrators sometimes use flash drives to load configuration flies and tools needed for system administration onto them.
Sometimes they are also used as a means of running a virus scanner, or to start a system recovery.
The drives have a lot of storage space, and it is often easier to carry a flash drive than to carry a number of CD-ROMs.
Certain flash drives also allow to install special versions of applications onto them.
These applications can then be run on any computer without the need for installing them.
Very often, they have been changed so that they use computer memory to hold temporary information, for example.
Flash drives are very cheap to produce.
For this reason, they are sometimes used to a product, or for marketing in general.
This is especially the case within technical and computer-industry circles -LRB- e.g. technology trade shows -RRB-.
A USB Flash drive is a small device that stores information and files from a computer.
Flash drives are very useful because you can carry them anywhere, and if you want to open files from the flash drive, all you need is a computer.
Flash drives are connected to a computer using a USB port, which is usually on the side of a computer screen or the box.
Flash drives use flash memory to hold files.
Flash memory is a type of memory that does not need any moving parts, unlike a CD or Floppy disk.
Flash drives can hold a lot of memory !
It can hold anything from 1 Gigabyte all the way up to 64 Gigabytes !
One gigabyte itself is a billion bytes which is a lot of memory !
-LRB- A byte is a form of measurement used for storing digital data. -RRB-
Other common names for a flash drives include : memory stick, keydrive, pendrive and jumpdrive or simply USB.
USB flash drives have many advantages over other storage devices that are portable -LRB- meaning you can carry them around with you -RRB-.
Many of them have been raplaced because people think the flash drive is much better.
The most common use of USB flash drives is probably to store personal files, or to move them from one computer to another.
There are also special flash drives that can store information that can be used in an emergency situation.
Users can put passwords on to their flash drives so that when they try to open it, the computer asks you for a password first.
This is a very good way of protecting the information on your flash drive.
In the United Kingdom the government lost some important data while moving it on a flash drive.
HEADING Holding data for people who manage computers
Administrators, or people who manage the computer systems, sometimes use flash drives.
Sometimes flash drives are also used to run a computer virus scanner, or to restart a computer system that broke or was damaged or lost.
Certain flash drives also allow you to install -LRB- or download -RRB- computer programs.
People who are investigating computer crimes can use flash drives to take evidence or proof.
These are actually flash drives that can make sound.
Some of these players are real USB flash drives as well as music players ; Others just play music.
Digital audio files can be moved from one computer to another like any other file, and played on a compatible media player -LRB- with caveats for DRM-locked files -RRB-.
HEADING Good Points and Bad Points
HEADING Good Points
Flash drives are quite strong.
They are not damaged by scratches and dust.
This makes them a good choice to move data from one place to another, or to keep it ready.
They can hold the same memory as several DVDs, at the physical size of less than a DVD.
To most operating systems, the flash drive looks like a hard drive.
HEADING Bad Points
A drawback to the small size is that flash drives are easily left behind, or otherwise lost.
This is a big problem if the data they have are important -LRB- see data security -RRB-.
Because of this, some makers of flash drives have added encryption hardware to their drives -- although software encryption systems achieve the same thing, and are available for all USB flash drives.
Others can just be put on to keychains, necklaces and lanyards -LRB- rubber-like strings -RRB-.
USB Flash drives are still more expensive, compared to other external storage devices, such as hard disks.
They are only available in small numbers.
Hard drives have a usually high minimum price.
So, they are sometimes used to a product.
At most technical trade fairs many exhibitors will promote their products by giving away free drives.
In other situations they may be sold at less than wholesale price, or included as a bonus with another product.
Usually, such drives will be custom-stamped with a company 's logo, as a form of advertising.
The drive may be blank drive, or already have documents or software loaded on to it.
These are called preloaded drives
Some preloaded drives are read-only, but most can be used as a normal flash drive
Usually, such drives will be stamped with a company 's logo, as a form of advertising.
She is one of the famous people who appeared on the cover the Beatles album, Sgt. Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band.
, then later The Beatles told her what it was and she changed her mind.
Koreans make kimchi with their family on the first Monday of December.
Kimchi -LRB- -RRB- is a traditional Korean food made from vegetables, widely with Chili pepper.
Kimchi can be stored for a long time and it does not go bad easily.
Manslaughter is the word used to describe killing someone but without meaning to do so.
The Baltic Sea is a sea in northern Europe between Scandinavia, Finland, Russia, the Baltic contries, Poland, and Germany.
The Baltic Sea is connected to the ocean through the narrow and shallow Danish straits and belts.
For this reason, the water has a low content of salt, so the northern parts of the sea freeze over in the winter.
Today the modern stereotype of Scandinavian peoples :
quite peaceful, and
regard -LRB- think of -RRB- other Scandinavians, as brothers
pale face with blonde or light hair color.
Defensor pacis is published by Marsilius of Padua
Kuwait is a small country -LRB- about 17,819 square kilometers -RRB- in the Middle East.
In 1990, Iraq invaded -LRB- brought an army in to fight against -RRB- Kuwait.
This started the first Gulf War.
Kuwait has a small and rich economy -LRB- money system -RRB-.
It has about 96 billion (96,000,000,000) barrels of crude oil reserves.
Crude oil reserves are the oil that is still under the ground and has not yet been cleaned up.
Kuwait has 10% of all of the oil reserves in the world.
The country makes a lot of money by selling oil.
The money made from selling oil is almost half of all the money the country makes.
The oil money is also 95% of the money made by selling things to different countries.
Also, the oil money is 80% of the money the government makes.
Kuwait 's weather makes farming hard.
Instead of farming, the country catches fish and buys food from other countries.
About 75% of the country 's water to drink has to be cleaned or bought from other countries.
Kuwait is now talking with oil companies of other countries to make oil fields in the northern part of the country.
About 75% of the country 's water to drink has to be distilled -LRB- have the salt removed -RRB- or purchased from other countries.
Per citizen gross national income -LRB- $ -RRB- 2002 612.
Originally the king had an axe, and over the years, the head of the axe was dropped from the picture.
What was left looks like to be a sword, thus making the king the look like he is stabbing himself in the head.
January 2 - Panama president Jose Antonio Remon is killed.
February 13 - Israel gets 4 of the 7 Dead Sea scrolls.
King Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia gave up the throne in favor of his father, King Norodom Suramarit.
Much flooding in North and Western Australia &#8211; 200 humans and tens of thousands of sheep dead, 44.000 homeless
April 5 - Winston Churchill resigns as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom amid signs of failing health
Relativity of simultaneity : A series of moving clocks which read the same time for a moving observer will be found to read different times -LRB- at what you consider to be the same time -RRB- based on how far apart they are in the direction of motion.
The special theory of relativity -LRB- or special relativity -RRB- was developed by Einstein in 1905.
He published the theory in 1905.
Einstein was unhappy with the explanations of electromagnetism in classical physics.
Einstein thought these explanations contradicted the principle of relativity.
For this reason, Einstein devised the special theory of relativity.
Einstein proposed that Special relativity is based on two ideas :
The difficulty is in the constancy of c. Let us say that light passes another person at c while heading towards you.
Let us say that you are traveling towards that person at 1 m\/s.
Then Newtonian physics says you would find the light to be traveling at -LRB- c + 1 -RRB- m\/s with respect to yourself.
But you do not.
Einstein says this is explained by the way you view space and time being different from the way the other person views space and time.
In this discussion, a view is called a frame of reference.
These views are related by the Lorentz transformations.
Let us say that you have a clock and a measuring rod.
Let us say that another person in a different frame of reference has an identical clock and an identical measuring rod.
The mathematics of special relativity creates three primary effects relating to the behavior of clocks and measuring rods which are moving with respect to one 's self :
The constancy of the speed of light in a vacuum -LRB- c -RRB- : All inertial observers always measure the speed of light as being the same.
-LRB- c = 299,798,458 m\/s -LRB- metres per second -RRB-.
The constancy of a thing means that the thing is always the same. -RRB-
The difficulty is in the constancy of c.
Let us think of two people, A and B. Let us say each can move, and each has an intrument to measure the speed of light.
Let us say that a ray of light passes A at speed c while heading towards B. Let us say that B is moving towards A at a speed of 1 m\/s.
Then Newtonian physics predicts B would find the light to be traveling at -LRB- c + 1 -RRB- m\/s with respect to B. But this is wrong, B finds that the speed is just c m\/s.
Einstein says this is because A 's view space and time is different from B 's view of space and time.
Let us say that A has a clock and a measuring rod.
Let us say that B in a different frame of reference has an identical clock and an identical measuring rod.
The mathematics of special relativity creates three primary effects relating to the behavior of clocks and measuring rods which are moving with respect to each other :
Time dilation : A observes that B 's moving clock is ticking slower than A 's own physically identical clock.
Lorentz contraction : A observes that B 's moving rod is shorter than A 's own physically identical rod.
Then classical physics -LRB- or Newtonian physics -RRB- predicts B would find the light to be traveling at -LRB- c + 1 -RRB- m\/s with respect to B. But this is wrong, B finds that the speed is still c m\/s.
The views of A and B are related by the Lorentz transformations.
Let us say that B, in a different frame of reference, has an identical clock and an identical measuring rod.
-LRB- ` Inertial ' means without acceleration. -RRB-
Let us think of two observers, A and B. Let us say each can move, and each has an instrument to measure the speed of light.
Let us say that light moving towards B is passing A at the speed of c. Let us say that B is moving towards A at a speed of 1 m\/s.
Then classical physics -LRB- or Newtonian physics -RRB- predicts B would find the light to have the speed of -LRB- c + 1 -RRB- m\/s with respect to B. But this is wrong, B finds that the speed is still c m\/s.
Special relativity -LRB- or the special theory of relativity -RRB- was developed and explained by Einstein in 1905 as he was unhappy with classical physics.
Einstein thought these ideas did not agree with the principle of relativity.
If you move toward something that moves toward you.
It will seem to be moving faster than if you were staying still.
Now if you are moving away from something that is moving toward you.
It will seem to be moving more slowly.
This is `` relative speed ''.
Before Einstein, science people were trying to measure the `` relative speed '' of light.
It did not matter who performed the tests, where they were happened, or what starlight they used, the `` relative speed '' of light was always the same.
Now, it is very widely accepted.
The need for special relativity arose from Maxwell 's math of electromagnetism, which were made into books in 1865.
It was later found that they call for electromagnetic waves -LRB- such as light -RRB- to move at a steady speed -LRB- i.e., the speed of light -RRB-.
To have Maxwell 's math be consistent with both things we have noticed with space and Newtonian physics, Maxwell proposed in 1877 that light travels through a luminferous ether which exists in the universe.
In 1887, the well known Michelson-Morley Test tried to find the `` ether wind '' made by the movement of the Earth.
The constant null results of this test puzzled physicists, and called the ether idea into question.
In 1895, Lorentz and Fitzgerald noted that the null result of the Michelson-Morley experiment could be explained by the ether wind contracting the test in the direction of motion of the ether.
This effect is called the Lorentz contraction, and -LRB- without ether -RRB- is because of special relativity.
In 1899, Lorentz first Made the Lorentz Math into a book.
This was not the first time they had been made into a book, this was the first time that they were used as a reason for the Michelson-Morley test 's null result, since the Lorentz contraction is a result of them.
In 1900, Poincare gave a famous talk in which he considered the possible idea that some `` new physics '' was needed to explain the Michelson-Morley experiment.
March 22 - People said the teachers at the McMartin preschool in Manhattan Beach, California were abusing the children in the school.
The police found out that this was not true.
March 23 - Sarah Tisdall, who told The Guardian newspaper that cruise missiles were coming to Britain, was sentenced to six months imprisonment.
March 24 - The Wran Government was chosen in NSW for a 4th term.
April 4 - President Ronald Reagan said that no one should use chemical weapons.
April 12 - Four young Palestinians took an Israeli bus hostage.
Israeli special forces got onto the bus and freed the hostages.
They killed 1 hostage and two of the hijackers.
Two other hijackers were captured and killed by Ehud Yatom.
He crushed their skulls while they were tied up.
Shin Bet chief Abraham Shalom told them to do this.
It caused a major scandal -LRB- Kav 300 affair -RRB-.
April 13 - India started Operation Meghdoot.
They took control of most of the Siachen Glacier in Kashmir.
April 17 - WPC Yvonne Fletcher was shot dead by a hidden gunman outside the Libyan Embassy in London during the event known as the 1984 Libyan Embassy Siege.
April 19 - Advance Australia Fair was named as Australia 's national anthem, and green and gold as the national colors.
April 25 - The end of Sultan Haji Ahmad Shah Al-Mustain Billah ibni Almarhum Sultan Sir Abu Bakar Riayatuddin Al-Muadzam Shah 's as the 7th Yang di-Pertuan Agong of Malaysia.
April 26 - Baginda Almutawakkil Alallah Sultan Iskandar Al-Haj ibni Almarhum Sultan Ismail, the Sultan of Johor becomes the 8th Yang di-Pertuan Agong of Malaysia.
May 2 - The Liverpool Garden Festival opens in Liverpool.
May 8 - The Soviet Union announced that it was not going to the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, California.
May 8 - Denis Lortie killed three people who worked for the government in the National Assembly of Quebec building.
May 19 - Game show contestant Michael Larson won $ 100,000 on the game show Press Your Luck.
Later, people found out that he won the money by mainly using only two squares of the Press Your Luck `` Big Board. ''
May 22 - Helen Branch was declared legally dead -LRB- she disappeared 1977 -RRB-
May 27 - Fluminense won the Brazilian soccer league, against the Club de Regatas Vasco da Gama.
June 5 - The Indian government began Operation Blue Star.
It was a planned attack on the Golden Temple in Amritsar.
June 6 - Indian troops attack the Golden Temple at Amritsar, the Sikh 's holiest shrine.
They killed about 1,000 people.
June 8 - A deadly tornado almost destroyed Barneveld, Wisconsin.
It killed nine people, injured almost 200 people, and caused over $ 25,000,000 in damage.
June 8 - The film Ghostbusters comes out in theaters.
It becomes a summer blockbuster hit.
The song `` Ghostbusters '' by Ray Parker Jr. became a Top 40 hit.
The governor of Alabama is Bob Riley, republican
ABBA was a Swedish pop group, who had many hits in the 1970s and early 1980s.
The group became very popular after they won the Eurovision Song Contest in 1974.
Although they broke up in 1982, their music remains popular appearing in movies -LRB- including the Australian films The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert and Muriel 's Weddding -RRB- and the musicial Mamma Mia.
Subsistence agriculture is the kind of agriculture done by those who only want to have enough for themselves.
The Silversword plant grows only at high s on the Island of Maui in Hawaii.
The silversword is a noticable, round-shaped rosette plant with rigid -LRB- swordlike -RRB-, succulent leaves densely covered by silver hairs.
Rapping is a form of singing lyrics, a bit like a mix between singing and talking.
No-one really knows who the fastest rapper in the world actually is.
Rapping has taken to the streets of America, with the youth `` spitting rhymes '' and `` battling '', using jokes and insults about the other person and `` Yo Mamma Jokes. ''
Currently, some of the most famous rappers worldwide are 50-Cent, Eminem, Jay-Z, Nas, Snoop Dogg, and Timbaland.
Color blindness is a kind of blindness where people can not see colors.
It is inherited as a genetic condition.
people who have Color blindness are not able to tell the difference between certain colors.
The two most common kinds of color blindness are `` green\/red '' and `` blue\/yellow. ''
With each of these, people have trouble telling apart between the first\/second color.
While the genetic defect causing people to have trouble telling blue\/yellow apart is the second most common defect it is also extremely rare as the defect of have no color receptors and seeing only black and white is even more so.
Color blindness is caused by bad functioning of the retina.
One of the cones -LRB- Color Sensitive Receptors -RRB- containing one pigment selective for each of the colors -LRB- red, green, and blue -RRB- are diminshed or totally absent.
Parts of the thalamus and the visual cortex in the brain are involved in seeing, also seeing colors.
Color blindness can also result if these areas of the brain have been, or if the optic nerve or retina suffered damage.
These types of color blindness usually result from an accident, and are not inherited.
Inherited forms of color blindness affect the retina only.
Some types of color blindness, normally when it has developed instead of from birth, can be cured.
Color blindness -LRB- or color blindness -RRB- is the name for a number of medical conditions.
Doctors sometimes call color blindness color vision deficiency or color vision deficiency
The image below first shows the way that an apple looks to a person with red-green color blindness, and then the way that it looks to a person without that type of color blindness.
The first apple is a Granny Smith ; it is green.
The second apple is a Braeburn ; it is a kind of yellow color.
HEADING Seeing color
In order to better understand what color lbindness is, it is necessary to explain how humans -LRB- and other animals -RRB- can see colors.
There are three steps :
The human eye gets information.
Different kinds of nerve cells are stimulated by this information.
Nerves are used to transport this information into special parts of the brain.
Different parts of the brain interpret the information they receive.
This allows to interpret the image, to see shapes and colors, and to associate the shapes and colors to other information.
In the United Kingdom, electricity wires in houses used to be red, black and green.
In order to understand color blindness, it is necessary to explain how humans -LRB- and other animals -RRB- can tell the difference between colors.
Electromagnetic waves, commonly known as light, hit specialized nerve cells, called receptors, in the human eye.
All of these signals are changed into an image.
This image is then carefully looked at to separate different objects, to see shapes and sometimes colors, and to link these to other kinds of information.
One is specially sensitive to short wavelengths, the other to medium wavelengths, and the third to long wavelengths.
These wavelengths cover much of the visible light.
Some types of color blindness, but not inherited color blindness, can be.
Sopron is a city of Hungary, located near the western border of Hungary with Austria, at the foot of the Alps, 60 km from Vienna -LRB- in Austria -RRB- and 220 km from Budapest.
The people of this city are famous for their loyalty to their country, andt their hometown.
A famous monument is ` Gate of Faith ' which is the symbol of the people 's faith to Hungary in 1921.
HEADING History = =
HEADING Ancient Scarbantia
At the time of the Roman Empire, there was a city here called Scarbantia stood here.
The main square of Sopron is in the same place as the forum or main square of Roman times.
After this the city was probably deserted and when the Hungarians arrived in the area, it was in ruins.
In the 9th -- 11th centuries Hungarians strengthened the old Roman city walls and built a castle.
The town got its Hungarian name of Sopron from a steward of the castle named Suprun.
By 1153 it was an important town.
In 1273 King Otakar II of Bohemia took over the castle and took the children of Sopron 's noble families as hostage.
But the people of the city opened the gates when the army of King Ladislaus IV of Hungary arrived.
The King Ladislaus made Sopron a free royal town.
HEADING 1500s-1800s
In 1528 Hungary was invaded by Ottoman Turks who destroyed many parts of the city but did n't take it over.
Many people from other towns fled to Sopron for safety.
In 1676 most of the ancient buildings in the city were destroyed by a fire.
When they were replaced, they were in a new style, called Baroque.
Many of the Baroque buildings are standing today.
HEADING 1900s = = =
Sopron was an important town in the Austro-Hungarian Empire.
In the early 1900s it became part of Austria.
But the townspeople were not happy with this and in December 1921 they voted that the city should be part of Hungary.
Since that day the city has been called `` Civitas Fidelissima '', -LRB- `` The Most Loyal Town '' which in Hungarian is `` A Legh ségesebb Város '' -RRB-.
A holiday is held every year to celebrate.
In World War II Sopron suffered badly.
It was bombed several times.
There were many Jewish people living in Sopron before the war.
The Nazis and their Hungarian allies sent the Jews of Sopron to death camp -RRB- s and killed nearly all of them, as well as other people who disagreed with Nazi ideas.
The Soviet Red Army captured the city on April 1, 1945.
Sopron, as part of Hungary, was ruled by a Socialist government.
At this time mmany factories were built around Sopron.
The Socialist government took away a lot of the freedom that people had.
In August 1989, in Sopron there was a big protest against the Socialist government, which was called the Pan-European Picnic.
While this was happening more than 200 people who lived in East Germany -LRB- which was Socialist -RRB- escaped to the West.
This was the beginning of a big change for all the Socialist countries of Europe.
People who had not been allowed to travel or live in other countries were finally allowed to be free.
HEADING 21st century
Hungary is now part of the European Union.
Sopron now has trade with other countries, most importantly Austria.
There rre many German-speaking people who live in Sopron so most street signs are written in both Hungarian and German.
HEADING Culture = =
HEADING Architecture
The city of Sopron shows signs of its long history in its buildings.
There are still walls and foundations from the Ancient Roman times and also building from the Middle Ages.
The medieval Kescke Church -LRB- `` Goat Church '' -RRB- was where coronations -LRB- crowning kings -RRB- and parliament took place.
There is also a very old Jewish synagogue.
Many of the most beautiful buildings are from the 1600s annd 1700s and are in the Baroque style which often has a lot of decoration.
Stornó House is one of the most well-known buildings, because of its elegant Baroque architecture, its connection with King Matthias and its interesting collection.
There is also a famous statue of the Holy Trinity from this time.
the `` Várkerület '' is part of the city built where the ancient moat was ; The inner row of houses follow the line of the castle wall.
Várkerület has a famous Maria Statue.
The Town Hall built in 1896 and the Ursuline Church is an important building in the Gothic Revival style.
HEADING Countryside = = =
Sopron is popular as a holiday place because it is set in beautiful countryside where people like to walk in the hills, enjoying the pure air, the forests and mountain springs.
There are many hiking paths and look-out towers.
Near to Sopron is Lake Fert.
The Löverek, is a beautiful hilly area south of the city, with forests of spruce, oaks and chestnut trees.
The flowers that bloom their include Lily of the Valley and cyclamens.
HEADING Wine
Sopron is a wine producing region, that is one of the few in Hungary to make both red and white wines.
The grapes grown here include Kékfrankos for red wine and Traminer -LRB- Gewürztraminer -RRB- for white wine.
In climate it is similar to the Burgenland wine region nearby in Austria, and several winemakers make wine in both countries.
HEADING Sports
MFC Sopron is a football team based in Sopron.
Sumo wrestlers need to be fat because the fatter they are, the harder it is to defeat them.
2,580,626 people live there.
Magdeburg is the capital of Saxony-Anhalt, a Bundesland -LRB- state -RRB- of Germany.
The city covers an area of 201 km.
227,129 people live there.
HEADING Mendelian Genetics
Probably the most important idea before Mendel was that of Charles Darwin, whose idea of pangenesis had two parts.
The first, that persistent hereditary units were passed on from one generation to another, was quite right.
The second was his idea that they were replenished by ` gemmules ' from the somatic -LRB- body -RRB- tissues.
This was entirely wrong, and plays no part in science today.
Genetics is a discipline of biology.
The word comes from the Ancient Greek for origin It is the science of heredity and variation of traits -LRB- characteristics -RRB- in living organisms, and the study of genes.
Supply is the amount that is available of something based on a price.
In economics, the Law of supply and demand will decide the price at which something will be bought and sold.
Demand is how much is bought of something based on a price.
It indicates how much it is needed or wanted.
In economics, the Law of supply and demand will decide the price at which something will be bought and sold.
A transaction is where something is bought, sold or traded.
Dan Brown -LRB- birthday June 22, 1964 -RRB- is an author - he writes books.
More people have The Da Vinci Code than have any other fiction book in the world, except maybe for the Harry Potter books.
Dan Brown lives in New England, in the United States.
Dan Brown went to Amherst College, and finished in 1986.
Dan Brown likes codes and secret languages, and he likes to write about them in his books.
Dan Brown 's next book will be called The Solomon Key.
When the book `` The Da Vinci Code '' came out in the United States, there were some puzzles hidden in the art of the book cover.
Dan Brown said that the answers to those puzzles, give hints about what will be in The Solomon Key.
This is a list of other books that Dan Brown wrote :
The Solomon Key -LRB- not out yet, but will be in 2006 -RRB-
Anglo-Saxons were a tribe of Germanic people.
They were among the main ancestors of the English people and nation.
The Anglo-Saxons settled in England after Roman rule there failed.
Early historians wrote that they were first invited by the Celtic King Vortigern, who needed help fighting the Picts and Scots.
Their settlements became the kingdoms of Sussex -LRB- South Saxons -RRB-, Wessex -LRB- West Saxons -RRB-, and Essex -LRB- East Saxons -RRB-.
Another closely related tribe that settled was the Angles.
Their settlements in the eastern, central, and northern parts of the country later became the kingdoms of East Anglia, Mercia, and Northumbria.
A third tribe, the Jutes, are usually included with Anglo-Saxons also.
They are believed to have settled the Isle of Wight area and what later became the kingdom of Kent.
In time, the Anglo-Saxons had seven separate kingdoms, known as the heptarchy, and these were gradually united to become England.
The word `` Anglo-Saxon '' is from Latin where it meant the Saxons in England, instead of those in Germany ; but the meaning soon changed to the `` English '', especially those before the Norman Conquest in 1066, and their language, also known as Old English.
Antoni Grabowski was a Polish chemical engineer, and an early supporter of the Esperanto movement.
The books and poems that he changed into Esperanto from other languages helped to make Esperanto more well-known and used.
HEADING Learning and work
Grabowski was born on June 11, 1857 in Nowe Dobre, which is near Che mno, in Poland.
A very small time after his birth, his family moved from Nowe Dobre to Toru.
Grabowski 's parents did not have a lot of money, so Grabowski started to work before leaving high school.
He wanted to learn a lot, though, so he got himself ready to take a test to get into grammar school.
He passed the test.
He went to the Nicolaus Copernicus school in Toru.
At that place, he was shown to be smarter than other people that were as old as him.
He was put in a higher class twice.
In 1879, his family got more money, so Grabowski started to learn Philosophy and Natural Science at the University of Breslau in Wroc aw.
After he was done with school, he started to work as a chemical engineer.
After that job, he started to work as a manager of a factory.
At that time, he made many new ideas about chemicals and things that helped with those ideas.
He became famous among people in Europe because of that.
He also had the job of making new words in the Polish language for technical things.
In 1906, he wrote a book, S ownik chemiczny.
The book helped other people to learn the words he had made.
HEADING Esperanto and writing
At his school, Grabowski started to want to know more about language.
Because of that, he joined the Slavic Literary Society -LRB- Towarzystwo Literacko-S owianskie -RRB-, a group that wanted to learn about the Slavic language.
Grabowski did not only want to learn about this language.
He learned a lot of other languages.
In 1887, Grabowski read the book Lingvo internacia.
Anta parolo kaj plena lernolibro.
This book was written by L.L. Zamenhof, a person who wanted to make an easy language that everyone could learn.
This language was called `` Esperanto. ''
Grabowski liked this language a lot.
He learned it, then went to Warsaw to see Zamenhof.
They spoke to each other in Esperanto.
Grabowski thought that books and writing were important to languages.
He thought that this was much more true with Esperanto.
Esperanto was getting used more, so it needed this.
So, in 1888, Grabowski started to re-write books into Esperanto from other languages.
-LRB- this is called `` translation. '' -RRB-
In the early 1890 's, Grabowski thought that Esperanto was being used by less people than before.
He thought that this was because Esperanto needed to be remade in a different way.
In 1854, though, he said that Esperanto was good like it was at first.
He said that all the time after that, too.
Grabowski was the leader of the Warsaw Esperanto Society and the Polish Esperanto society for a long time.
In 1908, he became the director of the Grammar Section of the Esperanto Academy.
He taught people a lot about Esperanto.
From that year until 1914, he made classes for schools about Esperanto.
He wrote something showing that Esperanto was good for learning other languages.
People did not know this at that time.
World War I made his family have to leave Poland.
They went to Russia, and he was left in Warsaw.
While he was there, he rewrote from Polish one of the most important things that have been changed into Esperanto.
This was the Polish poem, Pan Tadeusz by Adam Mickiewicz.
Grabowski died because of problems with his heart on July 4, 1921.
Doctors go to medical school to be trained.
They typically hold a college degree in medicine.
Doctors once made house calls to treat patients at home, but now mostly see patients in their offices or in hospitals.
Doctors treat patients by diagnosing them -- figuring out what is wrong -- and then prescribing treatment.
Often they prescribe drugs.
Some doctors specialize in a certain kind of medicine.
These doctors are called specialists.
They may only treat injuries to a certain part of the body, or only treat patients who have certain diseases.
For example there are doctors who specialise in diseases of the stomach or intestines.
Other doctors are `` general practitioners '' or `` family practitioners ''.
This means that they do a little bit of everything.
They try to deal with as much of a patient 's health problems as they can without sending them to a specialist.
They are called eye doctors, or optometrists.
Usually they can be found working in their own offices.
They give people glasses.
A doctor is someone who is licensed by a State government to treat people, and diagnose their illnesses.
This term includes those who practice medicine, osteopathy, chiropractic, podiatry, optometry, and in some States, even naturopathy and homeopathy to treat illnesses and injuries.
Doctors go to medical or other approved graduate schools, to be trained.
They typically hold a college degree in a life science or physical science like chemistry.
The television show has many.
It was originally shown from 1997 until 2003.
In traditional Hollywood horror stories, the young blonde girl is always the weakest character.
She is always the one that needs to be saved and she is often the first one to die.
In this show, Buffy Summers, Kendra Young, and Faith Lehane were the main slayers.
Willow fell in love with another witch, Tara Maclay.
When Tara was killed, Willow tried to destroy the world, but Xander stopped her.
Tara Maclay : Tara was a member of a wicca group Willow joined in her first year at college.
Tara Maclay, Jenny Calender, Joyce Summers, and Principal Snyder were all regular characters that died and did not return.
Spike and Buffy : Spike later tries to rape Buffy, but she stops him.
At the end of the series, Spike dies to save the world.
Xander and Anya : They almost got married, but Xander leaves Anya at the alter.
They never get back together.
Anya dies at the end of the series.
The word `` degree '' can mean :
Examples are bachelor, master, and PHD.
Examples are bachelor,, and PhD.
A public school can means different things in different countries :
HEADING USA and Canada
In the United States and Canada, public schools are schools that are paid for by the government.
They are open to all students who live nearby without any charge.
They are usually paid for through property taxes that are applied to everyone who owns buildings in the area around the school.
Public schools started in the United States in the 1800s.
Every U.S. state now has free public schools.
Some people think that public schools in the United States are doing a bad job of educating students.
Critics say this takes money away that could go to improving public schools.
HEADING UK and Commonwealth
In the United Kingdom, most Commonwealth counties, and some other English-speaking counties, public schools are independent schools that students pay to go to.
They are called ` public ' because they accept students from anywhere - not just people living nearby in the school area.
As lots of students at public schools do come from a long way away, most of these schools allow students to board.
These boarders will sleep and live at school during the week, or for the whole school term.
A proton is part of an atom.
The periodic table groups atoms according to how many protons it has.
Protons are made of quarks.
One quark has a negative charge, and 2 quarks have a positive charge.
This adds to a positive charge.
A proton has a very small mass..
The mass is about 1 Atomic mass unit.
The periodic table groups atoms according to how many protons they have.
A proton is believed to be made up of 3 quarks.
They contained in the nucleus of an atom along with neutrons.
They are contained in the nucleus of an atom along with neutrons.
The book talks about a religious group called Opus Dei, a famous artist named Leonardo da Vinci, and some famous paintings he made called the Mona Lisa and The Last Supper.
Before the builders came, there were many fields and a lot of villages.
There are many rivers and streams and lakes and a canal.
There are no houses on the fields beside the rivers.
Nobody can build on these fields because sometimes they get flooded when it rains a lot.
When the builders dug up the ground to build on, they found some strange things.
Silvio Berlusconi is also the most important manager of Italy, he is the owner of television group Mediaset, of the editorial group `` Mondadori '' of the football team A.C. Milan, of the Bank group Mediolanum SpA.
Berlusconi had some problems with justice, like fraud -LRB- 1994, 1996 -RRB- and corruption (1998), but most problems are, in effect, false.
In the 1990s he decided to enter on politic and he has been Head of Government in 1994, in 2001 and nowadays, since 2008.
Love can not easily be described for it is a mixture of emotions, people can love and be loved in different ways.
Love can not easily be described for it is a mix of emotions, people can love and be loved in different ways.
Love is a different feeling for many people ; different people can feel or experience love in different ways.
As a result it is something that is hard to define.
Being in-love is something which many people believe is too much ; people think about the person or thing they are in love with a lot, the person or animal -LRB- if that is possible -RRB- might think that the one he\/she is `` in love '' with is very important to them.
In fact, love does not even have to involve people ; for example, love can exist in regard to an object or idea.
However, as was said earlier, it is hard to tell if the feeling of love was ever there since it is hard to define in the first place.
There are other instances when love can be destroyed ; love was once there, but another feeling, such as jealousy or anger, has taken over the feeling of love.
It has the power to drive one to greater actions, sometimes crazy actions.
It is thought to be the best and highest of all emotions, possibly even the greatest purpose in life.
Many feel love is the feeling of being connected to someone, or something in the sense that you feel you could n't live without them\/it.
The feeling of knowing that that certain person\/thing is very important to you.
Some people confuse love with infatuation -LRB- when one has many feelings for a person, but are n't strong enough to be love -RRB-.
You could say this is not true love but sometimes known as ` puppy love '.
This usually happens in a young age especially with teenagers.
Love can not easily be described, for it is a mix of emotions ; people can love and be loved in different ways.
Often love can be confused with another feeling, such as sexual attraction, affection, obsession or feelings of friendship.
There are examples when love can be destroyed ; love was once there, but another feeling, such as jealousy or anger, has taken over the feeling of love.
Love is based on respect and admiration.
Respect must be present in order for love to grow.
One can not love someone or something one disrespects or hates.
For example, in William Shakespeare 's Romeo and Juliet, Romeo is Juliet 's very first love.
At that time, she was only 14.
In Maria Edgeworth 's book Belinda, Mr. Vincent says, `` First loves are silly things. ''
Mr. Percival says, `` First loves... are not necessarily more foolish than others ; but the chances are certainly against them... From poetry or romance, young people usually form their early ideas of love, before they have actually felt the passion... ''
Jackson died on June 25, 2009 after being taken to UCLA Medical Center.
It is thought that he went into cardiac arrest, which means his heart stopped.
At the time of his death, Jackson was 50 years old.
He was first famous as the lead singer of The Jackson 5.
Jackson also owned a ranch called Neverland, which he bought in 1989 was sold in November 2008.
http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2349422,00.asp http://www.computerworld.com/action/article.do?command=viewArticleBasic&articleId=9134896&intsrc=news_ts_head Jackson arrived at the hospital not showing signs of life.
Rumors and news of Jackson 's death broke web records causing a cyberspace traffic jamhttp : \/ \/ www.usatoday.com/life/people/2009-06-26-jackson-web-traffic_N.htm giving Google, Twitter, Facebook, and Yahoo the most page views they have ever gotten.
He was already unresponsive by 1:05 pm.
HEADING July 7 Memorial service
Thriller, which includes famous songs like `` Beat It '' and `` Billie Jean '', has sold at least 104 million copies worldwide.
Pornography is the pictures or stories of people doing things meant to arouse the viewer\/reader.
Usually it has nudity and detailed descriptions of sexual acts in it.
Allah Ackbar !
Pictures, movies and writing about sex are sometimes called pornography.
Pornography is a picture, movie or writing that is created to make people get sexually excited.
Pornography is not about love, or caring or making good sexual relationships.
Pornography usually shows a person -LRB- usually a woman, a child or teenager -RRB- who is being treated in a sexual manner without respect or love.
Erotica is Not Pornography, William J. Gehrke, The Tech, December 10, 1996Don ` t confuse erotica with porn, Jug Suraiya, The Times of India, August 15, 2004.
Works of art, movies or writing that show loving people acting in a sexual manner to each other are called erotica.
HEADING Definition = =
The word `` pornography '' comes from the Greek words meaning `` prostitue '' and `` writing ''.
A `` prostitute '' is a woman or young person, boy or girl, who has sex for money.
The word was first used for stories that were written about sex.
The word pornography is now used for photographs and other pictures, movies, and writing that is about sex, in a way that is usually disrespectful of one or more of the people who are shown.
In pornography, sex is the most important thing.
Pornography is often thought to be harmful as it is linked to sexual abuse.
HEADING What is not pornography = = =
Some people believe that anything that shows sex or a naked body is a type of pornography.
Most psychologists disagree.
Nakedness is not pornography.
Showing nakedness in a picture or movie is not pornography.
There can be all sorts of reasons for showing a naked or partly undressed body, for example an art work, a medical diagram or a photo of a person from a community where people do not wear many clothes.
`` Erotica '' is not pornography.
The word `` erotica '' is often used for pictures, movies or stories that are designed to make people think about sex in a way that has to do with good sexual relationships.
There is often a clear difference between `` erotica '' and `` pornography ''.
The words `` sexually explicit '' are sometimes used, particularly for movies.
However, a `` sexually explicit '' movie is not necessarily pornography.
The term `` soft porn '' is sometimes used for pictures that show people who may or may not be naked, but who are posed in a sexy manner.
Pornography is thought by some people to be harmful as it can be linked to sexual abuse.
This is n't always the case, though.
The word `` erotica '' is often used for pictures, movies or stories that focus on the beauty of sexuality, or seek to bring art into the world of sex.
Pornography is about sex in a way that makes it more important than other things -LRB- such as love, or caring or making good relationships -RRB-.
Today, many people are involved in making, selling or showing pornography.
GO STRAIT TO www.porn.com FOR THE BEST OF THE BEST PORNOGRAPHY - VIDEOES, PICTURES, AND BLOGS !
Diana Russell, a psychologist, says that there is a difference between pornography and erotica.
The word `` erotica '' is often used for pictures, movies or stories that focus on the beauty of sexuality.
There is not often a clear difference between `` erotica '' and `` pornography. ''
The dispute over what is or is not pornography can even go to the courts.
National Coalition against Censorship There can be all sorts of reasons for showing a naked or partly undressed body.
Some of these reasons include art work or a medical diagram.
When talking about animals, it means that the animals in question do not have hair.
In most movies this kind of nudity is avoided, usually by placing an object somewhere.
The picture woman bathing above gives an example of this kind of nudity.
The word `` nudity '' can be used to describe how a person feels.
A kingdom is a country with a king or queen.
The type of government is a Monarchy.
So the people went to mass, and they did not understand what the priest said.
He published 95 theses on the way the Catholic Church was then.
With the theses, he started the Protestant Reformation.
The population of the city is 1,519,570.
Algiers is the capital city of Algeria, which is a country in northern Africa.
The Rhine River -LRB- German Rhein, French Rhin, Dutch Rijn -RRB- has a length of 1 320 km, 883 km can be used by ships, one of the longest rivers in Europe.
A pound is the type of money people use in Great Britain.
Its value is the same as the value of 100 British pence.
A pound sterling is the type of money people use in Great Britain.
It is divided into 100 pence.
We write 50p or # 0.50 and say it `` fifty pee ''.
Huddersfield is a town in West Yorkshire, England.
Anti-tank dogs were dogs with explosives placed on their backs.
These dogs were trained to run under enemy tanks, then the explosives were remotely detonated in order to destroy the target tank.
These dogs were trained by the Soviet Union during World War II to be used against German armored vehicles.
However, these dogs were trained on Russian tanks, which used diesel fuel.
Because of this, the dogs instinctively ran toward the smell of diesel fuel from the Soviet tanks instead of the intended German targets.
The German Army soon learned of the use of dogs as anti-tank weapons, so all Russian dogs were shot on sight by the Germans, who feared that the dogs might be carrying explosives.
Very few dogs remained in the Eastern Front as a result of this.
After the war better anti-tank weapons became available, so it is unlikely that anti-tank dogs will ever be used again.
These dogs were trained to run under enemy tanks.
The explosives were then remotely detonated in order to destroy the target tank.
They were trained on Russian tanks, which used diesel fuel.
In battle, the dogs often ran toward the smell of diesel fuel from the Soviet tanks instead of the intended German targets.
After the war better weapons against tanks were made.
Therefore, it is unlikely that anti-tank dogs will ever be used again.
In Ido, the word skolo is sko-lo, the word multa is mool-ta, and so on.
You say Ido like you write it - In English the words doughnut, tough, and through all look like each other but you say them differently.
HEADING Ido and Esperanto
Ido is a language that came from Esperanto, so they look very similar.
Since Esperanto has more speakers than Ido, most people that know Ido first learned Esperanto and then later learned that Ido is a language too.
Sometimes Idists -LRB- people who speak Ido -RRB- and Esperantists -LRB- people who speak Esperanto -RRB- do n't agree with each other.
Luckily they both agree that making a language that everybody can learn is a good idea.
Most Idists and Esperantists can understand most of each other 's language.
For example, urbo means `` city '' and - estro means `` leader ''.
The root of urbo is urb -, and if - estro is put on the end, it becomes urbestro, which means mayor -LRB- leader of a city -RRB-.
Or the speaker can put something on before ; chef - means chief or leader, and if the speaker puts that before the word it becomes chefurbo, which means capital city.
- e : adverb -LRB- words that describe how to do an action -RRB-.
Paragraphs are often made up of many sentences, typically between four long sentences or 100 shorter ones.
Sometimes paragraphs have only have 15 or 30 long sentences.
Paragraphs are often made up of many sentences, typically between 40 long sentences or 100 shorter ones.
Paragraphs are often made up of many sentences.
They are usually between four long sentences or 10 shorter ones.
The following sentences form the `` body '' of the paragraph ; they may give some more points to explain the key sentence.
It ends the paragraph.
An atheist is a person who is not a theist -LRB- Atheists do not believe in God, or Gods -RRB-.
Owls are carnivores.
Their eyes, ears and feathers have adaptations for hunting in the dark.
It can be used either for cutting, slashing or stabbing, depending on the type of sword.
Larger swords, such as great swords or claymores are used with two hands.
After the invention of the gun, swords remained as sidearms, as secondary weapons used in man-to-man fight once the battle lines had contacted after shooting.
Some guns, however, have bayonets to perform the same function.
Australians Schapelle Corby and a group known as the Bali Nine are serving long terms in Kerobokan Prison and several of the Nine have been sentenced to death.
The tiger -LRB- Panthera tigris -RRB- is a large mammal.
It belongs to a family of animals called the Felidae.
Jaguars can become up to 10-12 years old in freedom, but in captivity -LRB- such as in zoos -RRB- they can become up to 20-22 years old.
Pink Floyd is a band that has been performing for over 30 years.
They have been performing for more than 30 years, and have sold more than 200 million (200,000,000) albums.
Their name comes from two of Barrett 's favorite blues artists, Pink Anderson and Floyd Council.
Syd Barrett started the group.
He played guitar and sang during that time, but left soon after because of mental illness that was made worse by heavy drug use.
The other people in the band were Roger Waters -LRB- bass guitar and vocals -RRB-, David Gilmour -LRB- lead guitar and vocals -RRB-, Richard Wright -LRB- keyboard and vocals -RRB-, and Nick Mason -LRB- drums -RRB-.
They played a kind of rock music called progressive rock.
It was a style they created after the psychedelic start of the band under Barrett 's leadership.
Pink Floyd, apart from Gilmour, was started in an architectural college.
At the time of Dark Side Of The Moon, a very famous album that stayed on music charts for a very long time, they were famous as studio musicians who loved to experiment with music.
Being rather rich already, the members never changed their style just to sell more records.
They could be called `` anti-stars ''.
The album The Wall had devoted fans, and was put into a rock opera movie, directed by Alan Parker, in 1982.
That album is important to the history of the group, telling of the distance they put between them and their public, as well as being the last album they all worked on before splitting up.
They used a lot of things to make their concerts interesting to watch.
They would show videos on the screen when they played.
They have been voted the Best Rock Band Ever many times.
They were named by Syd Barrett after the blues artists Pink Anderson and Floyd Council.
Syd Barrett started the group, and played guitar and sang in the band.
He left soon after, at the start of 1968, because of mental illness that was made worse by heavy drug use.
David Gilmour joined the band in 1968.
Roger Waters quit the band in 1985.
During most of their career, they played a kind of rock music that some people call progressive rock.
Their most famous album is Dark Side Of The Moon, which was released in 1973.
It stayed on music charts for a very long time, and sold millions of copies.
The original members of Pink Floyd met in an architectural college.
The band started as a blues band.
Later, under Syd Barrett 's leadership, they played music that was psychedelic in style.
After Barrett left the band, they started to play longer and more complicated songs, and to play at a lot of colleges and universities.
Soon, they were famous as studio musicians who loved to experiment with music.
On the album Atom Heart Mother, from 1970, they used a brass band and a choir.
They also had big balloon puppets.
The pig has become a symbol of Pink Floyd.
Another symbol that reminds people of Pink Floyd is a prism with light shining through it.
This was the cover of Dark Side of the Moon, one of their most popular albums.
Symbols and other images are important to Pink Floyd because the people in the band wanted to be famous for their music, not the way they looked or acted.
In other words, they did not want to be famous as celebrities like the Beatles, but wanted their audience to focus on the music.
The album The Wall, recorded in 1979, was also famous.
It was made into a movie, directed by Alan Parker, in 1982.
That album is important to the history of the group.
It talks about the distance they put between them and their fans.
It was the last album they all worked on together before starting to split up.
Roger Waters forced Richard Wright to leave the band in 1979, but Wright came back in 1987, after Waters quit.
Waters tried to sue the other members so that they could not call themselves Pink Floyd without him, but he did not succeed.
Because of this and other reasons, there was a lot of anger and bitterness between Waters and the other members of the band, especially Gilmour.
It was made in 1994, when Pink Floyd also played their last concert tour.
The very last time that Pink Floyd played was in 2005, as part of a concert for charity.
It was a big surprise to many people who thought Pink Floyd would never play together again, especially not with Roger Waters.
Syd Barrett died of cancer in 2006.
Richard Wright died in 2008, also of cancer.
David Gilmour has said that without Richard Wright, there is no Pink Floyd anymore.
They performed for more than 30 years, and have sold more than 675 million (675,000,000) albums.
1957 - Belle Baker, American 1920s torch singer, film & television actress, -LRB- b. 1893 -RRB-
1854 - The Ashmun Institute is officially begins as the first college for African American students.
1861 - American Civil War : Maryland 's House of Delegates votes not to split from the Union
1944 - `` Dancing Romeo, '' the last Our Gang film, is shown for the first time.
1945 - World War II : The German Army in Italy surrenders -LRB- gives up -RRB- to the Allies.
1945 - Adolf Hitler marries his long-time partner Eva Braun in a Berlin bunker and decides that Admiral Karl Dönitz will be the next ruler.
1945 - Holocaust : The Dachau concentration camp is freed by United States troops.
1946 - Former Prime Minister of Japan Hideki Tojo and 28 former Japanese leaders are accused of war crimes.
1967 - After refusing to go into the United States Army the day before -LRB- because of religious reasons -RRB-, Muhammad Ali is stripped of his boxing title.
1970 - Vietnam War : United States and South Vietnamese forces go into Cambodia to hunt Viet Cong.
1974 - Watergate Scandal : President Richard Nixon annouces the release of edited word copies of White House tape recordings that deal with the scandal.
1975 - Vietnam War : Operation Frequent Wind & ndash ; The last U.S. citizens begin to leave Saigon before an expected North Vietnamese takeover.
United States part in the war comes to an end.
1992 - 1992 Los Angeles riots : Riots in Los Angeles, California, follow the release of police officers charged with too much strength and force in the beating of Rodney King.
Over the next three days, 54 people are killed and hundreds of buildings are destroyed.
1997 - The Chemical Weapons Convention of 1993 enters into force, and makes the production, stockpiling and use of chemical weapons illegal.
2002 - The United States is re-elected -LRB- chosen again -RRB- to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, one year after losing the seat it had held for 50 years.
2004 - Richard Cheney and George W. Bush talk to the 9\/11 Commission in a closed, unrecorded trial in the Oval Office.
2005 - JAG, the longest running military drama in U.S. television history, airs its last show.
1927 - The Ford Motor Company stops making the Ford Model T and gets ready to make Ford Model As.
1936 - The RMS Queen Mary begins her first voyage.
1939 - DC Comics prints its second superhero in Detective Comics # 27 ; he is Batman, one of the most topical comic book superheroes of all time.
The German commander, Captain Fritz Knochlein, is later hanged for war crimes.
1965 - Vietnam War : United States warships begin bombing of National Liberation Front targets within South Vietnam for the first time.
1968 - Future U.S. President George W. Bush joins the Texas Air National Guard.
1980 - The Gwangju Massacre : air force and army troops of South Korea retake the city of Gwangju from civil militias, killing at least 207 and possibly many more.
1995 - In Charlottesville, Virginia, actor Christopher Reeve is paralyzed -LRB- not able to move -RRB- from the neck down after falling from his horse in a riding competition.
1996 - First Chechnya War : Russian President Boris Yeltsin meets with Chechnyan rebels for the first time and agrees to a cease-fire in the war.
1999 - The International War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague, Netherlands charges Slobodan Milo evi and 4 others for war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in Kosovo.
HEADING Births
1400 - Guillaume Dufay, French composer -LRB- died 1474 -RRB-
1560 - Elizabeth Báthory, serial killer -LRB- died 1614 -RRB-
1598 - Georg Stiernhielm, poet
1742 - Nathanael Greene, American Revolutionary War general -LRB- died 1786 -RRB-
1779 - Carl Ritter, geographer -LRB- died 1859 -RRB-
1836 - Evander Law, American Confederate general
1860 - Alan Leo, Brititsh astrologer -LRB- died 1917 -RRB-
1867 - Emil Nolde, painter -LRB- died 1956 -RRB-
1876 - Mata Hari, spy -LRB- died 1917 -RRB-
1877 - Ulrich Salchow, Swedish figure skater
1883 - Joachim Ringelnatz, writer -LRB- died 1934 -RRB-
1885 - Billie Burke, actress -LRB- died 1970 -RRB-
1890 - Gurley Flynn, politician -LRB- died 1964 -RRB-
1904 - Ralph Bunche, Nobel Peace Prize recipient -LRB- died 1971 -RRB-
1904 - Hanna Melzer, anti-Nazi -LRB- died 1960 -RRB-
1926 - Stan Freberg, American voice comedian
1927 - Carl Alfalfa Switzer, actor -LRB- died 1959 -RRB-
1928 - James Randi, magician
1936 - Rahsaan Roland Kirk
1940 - Jean-Luc Dehaene, Prime Minister of Belgium
1942 - Garrison Keillor, American writer and radio host
1942 - B.J. Thomas, singer
1943 - Dino Valente, American musician, Quicksilver Messenger Service -LRB- died November 16, 1994 -RRB-
1945 - Alan Page, American football player
1949 - Walid Jumblatt, leader of the Lebanese Druze
1958 - Bruce Dickinson, singer
1960 - David Duchovny, actor
1966 - Jimmy Wales, American founder of Wikipedia
1975 - Charlize Theron, actress
HEADING Deaths
461 - Majorian, Roman Emperor -LRB- assassinated -RRB-
1817 - Pierre Samuel du Pont de Nemours, French industrialist -LRB- b. 1739 -RRB-
1834 - Joseph Marie Jacquard, inventor of the Jacquard loom
1848 - Jöns Jakob Berzelius, Swedish chemist
1855 - Mariano Arista, president of Mexico
1912 - François - Alphonse Forel, Swiss hydrologist -LRB- born 1841 -RRB-
1931 - Bix Beiderbecke, musician
1941 - Rabindranath Tagore, author
1957 - Oliver Hardy, comedian, actor -LRB- born 1892 -RRB-
1995 - Brigid Brophy, British author
1999 - Brion James, American actor
2004 - Red Adair, American oil well firefighter
HEADING Events
1679 - The brigantine Le Griffon, which was commissioned by René Robert Cavelier, Sieur de La Salle, is towed to the southern end of the Niagara River, to become the first ship to sail the upper Great Lakes of North America.
1789 - The United States War Department is established.
1782 - George Washington orders the creation of the Badge of Military Merit to honor soldiers wounded in battle.
It is later renamed to the more poetic Purple Heart.
1794 - Whiskey Rebellion begins : Farmers in the Monoghaela Valley of Pennsylvania rebel against the federal tax on liquor and distilled drinks.
1819 - Simón Bolívar triumphed over Spain in the Battle of Boyacá.
1927 - Peace Bridge opens, between Fort Erie, Ontario and Buffalo, New York.
1942 - World War II : Battle of Guadalcanal begins - US Marines initiate the first American offensive of the war with a landing on Guadalcanal in the Solomon Islands.
1944 - IBM dedicates the first program-controlled calculator, the Automatic Sequence Controlled Calculator -LRB- known best as the Harvard Mark I -RRB-.
1947 - Thor Heyerdahl 's balsa wood raft the Kon-Tiki, smashes into the reef at Raroia in the Tuamotu Islands after a 101 day 7 000 km -LRB- 4,300 mile -RRB- journey across the Pacific Ocean proving that pre-historic peoples could have traveled from South America.
1953 - Ohio admitted to the union, retroactive to 1803 -LRB- this is disputed by some -RRB-.
1959 - Explorer program : The United States launches Explorer 6 from the Atlantic Missile Range in Cape Canaveral, Florida.
1960 - Côte d'Ivoire becomes independent.
1964 - Vietnam War : The United States Congress passes the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution giving US President Lyndon B. Johnson broad war powers to deal with North Vietnamese attacks on American forces.
1965 - Singapore is expelled and separated from the Federation of Malaysia.
1967 - Vietnam War : The People 's Republic of China agrees to give North Vietnam and undisclosed amount of aid in the form of a grant.
1976 - Viking program : Viking 2 enters into orbit around Mars.
1978 - United States President Jimmy Carter declares a federal emergency at Love Canal.
1981 - The Washington Star ceases all operations after 128 years of publication.
1988 - `` Police riot '' in New York City 's Tompkins Square Park
1989 - US Congressman Mickey Leland -LRB- D-TX -RRB-, and 15 others die in a plane crash in Ethiopia.
1990 - At 12:34:56 -LRB- both AM and PM -RRB- the time and date by British reckoning was 12:34:56 7/8/90.
1997 - Fine Air Flight 101, a cargo flight from Miami to Santo Domingo crashes onto NW 72nd Ave near Miami International Airport, killing five people.
1998 - 1998 U.S. embassy bombings : Bombing of the United States embassies in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and Nairobi, Kenya kills 224 people and injures over 4,500.
2001 - Australian census
The army prefers not to use 24:00 - they do not like to have two names for the same thing so they always say `` 23:59 '', which is one minute before midnight.
People never forget if midday is 12 a.m. or 12 p.m.
People do n't have to figure out if noon is 12 a.m. or 12 p.m.
Under the 24-hour clock system, the day begins at midnight, 00:00, and the last minute of the day begins at 23:59 and ends at 24:00, which is identical to 00:00 of the following day.
12:00 can only be mid-day.
Midnight is called 24:00 if used to mean the end of the day and 00:00 if used to mean the beginning of the day.
For example, you would say `` Tuesday at 24:00 '' and `` Wednesday at 00:00 '' to mean the exact same time.
However, the US military prefers not to say 24:00 - they do not like to have two names for the same thing, so they always say `` 23:59 '', which is one minute before midnight.
The 24-hour clock is a way of telling the time in which the day runs from midnight to midnight and is divided into 24 hours, numbered from 0 to 24.
The Spanish-American War was a war fought between Spain and the United States of America in the year 1898.
HEADING Causes
Following reports of Spanish abuse and killing of Cubans, the United States sent warships to Cuba.
Spain was losing control of Cuba and had been putting Cubans into concentration camps.
The United States sent ships to Cuba to try and force Spain to give up Cuba.
The U.S. battleship Maine exploded in Cuban waters.
U.S. newspapers blamed Spain when, in reality, the ship exploded from an accident.
Spain tried to stop war, but pressure from U.S. newspapers, called `` yellow journalism, '' and people forced the United States government to go to war.
The war was also caused by U.S. newspapers and others who felt that the United States needed colonies like most of the major European countries at the time.
HEADING Fighting
A major attack occurred in the Philippines.
An American fleet commanded by George Dewey destroyed the Spanish fleet.
Ground battles took place in Cuba and Puerto Rico.
HEADING Peace
The object is to clear a minefield of mines.
Deal or No Deal is a gameshow which has been broadcast in the UK on Channel 4 since October 31, 2005.
Series 1 ended in January 2006 and Series 2 began one day later.
It is presented by Noel Edmonds and normally airs from 4.15 pm to 5.00 pm on weekdays and early on Saturday evenings in a varying time slot, lasting 45 minutes or sometimes an hour.
The weekday show is repeated on Channel 4 's digital sister station, More4, at 6.10 pm.
The prime-time Saturday shows are repeated on More4 on Sunday evenings, again at around 6.00 pm.
Contents hide
1 Format
2 Special changes
3 Filming
4 Predictable sequences
5 Popularity
5.1 Live audiences
5.2 Prime time
5.3 Two-year deal for Deal or No Deal
5.4 Double Deal Week
6 Awards
7 UK records & facts
7.1 Largest amounts won
7.2 Smallest amounts won
7.3 Most money lost
7.4 Lowest deal and offer
7.5 Number of appearances
7.6 Show trivia
8 Viewers ' competition
9 Media image
10 The Banker
11 UK box values
12 Catchphrases and presenting style
12.1 Introductions
12.2 Contestant selection
12.3 Starting the game
12.4 During the game
12.5 General advice & observations
12.6 The 1p Club
12.7 Commercial links
12.8 Contestant Catchphrases
13 Criticism
14 Episode history
15 External links
Format
This section refers to the current UK format of Deal or No Deal.
For the general format of Deal or No Deal see the main Deal or No Deal article.
The prizes range from 1p to # 250,000, a record for UK daytime television, with the values written inside 22 identically-sealed red boxes, identical except for the number on the front.
All the boxes are sealed by an independent adjudicator.
Neither Noel, the contestant, the banker or the Endemol production team know about what value is written in each box.
The boxes are opened by the 21 contestants awaiting their turn to play -LRB- unlike the US version which uses models to open the cases -RRB- - these waiting contestants are also regularly spoken to by the host and offer support and advice to the player, so they are familiar to the TV audience by the time they get their turn to play.
These players stay on the show until they get their turn to sit on `` the most important chair in television '' as host Noel Edmonds calls it -LRB- or `` stool '', as Noel sometimes said in earlier editions -RRB-, and each day 's player is selected by the producers, instead of through a quiz as is done in some other versions.
Each day a new contestant joins those opening boxes and waiting to play, replacing the person who played the previous day.
Bank offers are made after the fifth box is opened and every third box thereafter.
As of June 11, 2006, the show has already paid out to the players in the hotseat # 3,154,007.24 in prize money, in 191 editions.
This excludes the extra # 1,000 that the Banker gave to contestant Gabrielle -LRB- April 15, 2006 -RRB- when she said that she was going to donate the winnings to charity.
January 18, 2006 - Episode 67 - marked the first edition of the second series of Deal or No Deal.
The second series will contain 230 episodes.
The main difference is that once a person has made a deal with the banker, at subsequent -LRB- notional -RRB- banker 's offers, the accepted deal is displayed on screen alongside the current `` offer ''.
This gives a clearer picture to the TV audience on whether the contestant has made a good deal.
The stand on which the old-fashioned telephone sits is also raised slightly higher.
Since February 27, 2006, the figures of money displayed inside the boxes have been colored red or blue corresponding to their position in the money chart.
Since the first show after Double Deal week was over, the figures displayed in the boxes have also been pushed forward so they stick out more and form a shadow on the back of the box.
They are still colored in the way they were since show 101.
Special changes
On occasion, certain cosmetic elements of the show have been altered to tie in with certain themes.
Each of these events refers to when the episode aired, not when these episodes were filmed :
In the show 's broadcast from December 10 -LRB- Elaine 's game -RRB- to December 30, 2005 -LRB- Max 's game -RRB-, holly leaf shapes appeared on contestants ' name badges, the boxes were made to look like Christmas presents, and sleigh bells were added to the last part of the signature tune.
On December 22, Noel Edmonds wore a suit as he was celebrating his 57th birthday.
The contestants from the show gave him a birthday cake at the end of the show and also sang Happy Birthday to him.
Finally, on December 23 -LRB- the last show before Christmas -RRB-, each contestant wore appropiate Christmas themed headgear, such as a Santa hat, reindeer antlers, or an elf hat.
At the end of the episode it began snowing in the studio, and the usual closing theme was replaced by the seasonal song Winter Wonderland.
During Valentine 's Week -LRB- 13-17 February 2006 -RRB-, the boxes had hearts on the seals, and the contestant who was playing that day gave a special prize to one of their fellow contestants each day -LRB- e.g. a year 's supply of Belgian Chocolates, a trip for two -RRB-.
Noel referred to this special week as `` Love Week ''.
The show 's logo which appeared on the studio monitor at the start of the show gained two Cupid 's arrows, and on Valentine 's Day itself, the usual `` walk of wealth '' music was replaced by The Miracles ' recording of `` Love Machine '', which also reappeared briefly after the deal.
On March 17, 2006, boxes were green instead of the normal red as it was St. Patrick 's Day.
The box tabs also had shamrock shapes on them, as did the logo.
As with `` Love Week '', the selected contestant, James, was asked to give another contestant a prize, in this case, a trip for two to Dublin.
On March 25, 2006, the last show before Mother 's Day, the boxes were pink instead of the normal red, and the tabs had child-like drawings of a mum.
The selected contestant, Nancy, was asked to give one contestant a luxury spa trip for two.
On April 1, 2006, April Fool 's Day, in the first shot of the show, the logo on the screen in the background read ` Noel or No Noel '.
On the show credits The Banker was credited as ` Richard Oldman ' instead of the usual ` Himself '.
Richard Oldman can be deciphered as Rich Hard Old Man.
On April 15, 2006, Holy Saturday, the first shot of the show showed an egg crack open to reveal a Deal Or No Deal box, the boxes were golden yellow instead of the normal red and the tabs were in the shape of eggs.
This also occurred on Easter Monday, April 17, 2006.
But this time, the selected contestant, Julia, was asked to give one contestant an Easter hamper.
On May 20, 2006, to coincide with the staging of the Eurovision Song Contest, the contestants dressed up as Eurovision characters from the past, with European flags on their name badges, and opening gold boxes with a gold star stuck on the front.
The viewers ' game was changed so someone at home could win # 5,000, # 10,000 or # 30,000 - the winning viewer ended up winning # 5,000.
Also, when Emma was selected, instead of the Walk of Wealth music, they had Buck 's Fizz 's Eurovision entry Making Your Mind Up.
June 18, 2006, the last day of Double Deal Week, saw the boxes decorated with smoking pipes and slippers to mark Father 's Day.
June 26, 2006, The first day of the 2006 Wimbledon Championships, the boxes were again green and were changed to have tennis balls on them.
The BBC 's Wimbledon theme music -LRB- `` Light and Tuneful '' by Keith Mansfield -RRB- was played as Ryan took the `` walk of wealth down to center court ''.
Filming
Deal or No Deal is filmed in Bristol.
Despite appearing to be filmed day by day, the producers of the show actually film three shows per day for two weeks, then have a week off.
This was perhaps best demonstrated when Noel asked the audience whether, in the player 's position they would ` deal ' or ` no deal '.
At one contestant 's apparent ignorance or misunderstanding of the show 's concept, suggesting the player say `` Deal '' and keep playing ; Noel led the audience member from his seat to a fire exit, where he was directed out of the studio by Noel, into a car park - showing that it was night-time when filmed.
Each show will, when filming, usually last longer than 45 minutes ; after filming, superfluous parts of the show are cut in order to make it fit into this time frame.
The amount of time between the recording date and the broadcast date has varied.
Many of the games broadcast during January 2006 had been recorded less than two weeks previously.
But on 2nd June 2006, Noel Edmonds appeared on Friday Night with Jonathan Ross on BBC One.
Noel revealed that at this current moment in time -LRB- June -RRB-, Deal or No Deal is currently filming for October, five months in advance of broadcast.
During the same show he also joked that there have been 2 people who have won # 250,000.
He said that these two shows shall not be aired, but the players have been ` paid off ' nonetheless.
Noel often says the same thing at recordings of Deal or No Deal before saying to the audience, `` obviously that 's not true but just wait - it 'll be on the internet within the hour ! ''
In June 2006, it was reported that Noel is suffering from Repetitive Strain Injury brought about by his constant picking up and replacing the Banker 's phone during recordings of the show.
The handset, according to Edmonds, is heavier than it looks.
Coming at a time when episodes were being recorded in advance of October screenings, filming was unaffected by Noel 's ailment.
Predictable sequences
In early 2006, it was discovered that the distribution of prizes was - for a time - ordered in one of several static sequences which soon became public knowledge.
Any person spotting the sequences could determine the contents of every remaining box after a small number of boxes were opened.
Had players known of these sequences, they could have guided themselves to the top prize in most circumstances.
In fact, there were three instances in which at least two players ' games had identical box contents, in that the same figures were in the same number boxes.
These were :
Show 71, Ann -LRB- 23 January 2006 -RRB- and Show 74, Andrew -LRB- 26 January 2006 -RRB-
Show 81, Jim -LRB- 3 February 2006 -RRB- and Show 93, Paula R. -LRB- 17 February 2006 -RRB-
Show 84, John M. -LRB- 7 February 2006 -RRB-, Show 88, Daz -LRB- 11 February 2006 -RRB- and Show 106, Sam -LRB- 4 March 2006 -RRB-
The sequences were due to the random number generator used by the independent adjudicators to load the boxes.
This random number generator assigned the same patterns to boxes in various games during January and February 2006.
The sequences were first publicly exposed on the website Bother 's Bar, which offered the right of reply to the producers.
This offer was taken up by Series Producer Glenn Hugill, who revealed that the independent adjudicators, unaware of the potential problem they were causing, had been using the pseudorandom number generation function in Microsoft Excel to distribute the values among the boxes, and that it had not been properly seeded.
Following the discovery of the patterns, the random number generation system was changed to a `` balls in a bag '' system -LRB- the same method as is used to distribute the boxes among the contestants -RRB-, though because the show is recorded well in advance, games using Excel-generated sequences continued to air for some time.
The last show to be recorded using the Excel-generated sequence method aired on March 7, 2006.
A similar discovery was made in 1984 by Michael Larson, a player of the US game show Press Your Luck, and used to amass a record number of winnings.
However, none of the contestants on affected Deal or No Deal shows spotted the -LRB- admittedly complex -RRB- patterns, and as such were not able to profit to any significant degree.
That said, in Glenn 's statement about the problem, it was revealed that more money was paid out over the course of these shows than the average.
Popularity
The original commission of 66 episodes, 6 times a week, Monday to Saturday was immediately followed by a re-commission of a further 230 episodes in December 2005, based on extremely good audience ratings for the slot - at that time it was averaging 2.5 million viewers since the launch at the end of October 2005.
Ratings for the afternoon shows have recently peaked at around 5 million, making it the most watched daytime TV show in the UK.
On most days it has been the highest rating program on Channel 4 - remarkable given the relatively low-key afternoon timeslot.
In addition, up to 300,000 have viewed the More4 repeat showing each day.
Noel Edmonds has recently been reported to be earning up to # 3 million to host the show for the next 18 months, making him Britain 's highest paid presenter, ahead of Paul O'Grady -LRB- # 2 million -RRB- and Richard and Judy -LRB- # 1 million -RRB-, who all present shows that broadcast on Channel 4.
Edmonds himself, however, has denied this.
Live audiences
The program has increasingly included its audience of around 150 people in the fabric of the show.
Because of the ` underground ' feel of the set and the fact that the show is filmed in the round, audiences seem to get dragged into the drama of the game as it unfolds.
Afternoon audiences watch one show and evening audiences watch two but are shuffled around and reseated.
Prime time
In January 2006, it was announced that due to the popularity of the show, a special Saturday night prime time series would start in the Spring.
The first ever prime time edition aired on March 4, 2006 at 7.10 pm.
This version replaced the regular Saturday edition, and lasts for one hour rather than 45 minutes, with an extra advert break inserted near the end, although for some editions, it actually lasted for 45 minutes due to the program scheduling.
Two-year deal for Deal or No Deal
On March 17, 2006, Endemol UK announced that Channel 4 has agreed to keep the show running for another two years, extending the already agreed one-year contract.
It follows the success of the primetime Saturday night show of up to 5 million viewers -LRB- 23.6% share of the audience -RRB-, and the daytime show of up to 4.8 million -LRB- 38% share -RRB-.
It has consistently been the most watched program in its slot for all UK channels for both daytime and primetime.
This deal will run from January 2006 to December 2007.
Rumours suggest that this contract is worth # 3 million.
Double Deal Week
In May 2006 it was announced that Deal or No Deal would air twice daily for one week in June, with a special episode on Sunday of that week also.
It was also revealed that there would be a `` Hall of Fame '' feature with past contestants returning to reveal how their life has changed since playing the game, and clips of their game being shown.
Double Deal week began on Monday 12th June, showing two shows per day, one normal time of 4.15 pm, and a second show at 8.00 pm.
The Hall Of Fame contestants, who returned for the 8.00 pm shows, were :
Jennifer Miller - who won # 120,000
Gaz Hall - who won # 100,000 after taking out the # 250,000 with the first box
Okiem - who won # 17,000
Vanessa - who won # 20,000
Nick Bain - founder of the ' 1p club '
Mally Welburn - who won # 54,000
Morris Simpson - who won # 20,000, after he never swapped the last box containing # 250,000
Sam Simmons - who won # 41,000
Sajeela Sarfraz - who won # 50,000
Marcus Neil - who won # 31,000
Lucy Harrington - who won # 5, after appearing on 50 shows
Matt - who won # 35,000
Kirsty Hardle - who won # 75,000, after no dealing at # 125,000
A further past contestant, Pat M, provided the introduction voiceover for one of the Hall of Fame clips but did not actually reappear on the show.
Awards
Deal or No Deal was named `` Daytime Programme of the Year '' at the Royal Television Society Awards on March 14, 2006.
The UK version also won the Rose d'Or award for Best Game Show at the 2006 Lucerne Television Festival.
Noel Edmonds was also nominated in the Best Entertainment Performance category at the 2006 BAFTA Television Awards.
UK records & facts
Largest amounts won
The highest payout to date is a UK daytime television record of # 120,000, which was a deal accepted by contestant Jennifer Miller on November 18, 2005.
She was left with the # 750 -LRB- her own box -RRB- and # 250,000 when she took the deal.
The next biggest winner so far is Gaz on May 2, 2006, winning # 100,000 -LRB- in his own box -RRB-, followed by Germaine -LRB- March 7, 2006 -RRB- and Kirsty -LRB- April 4, 2006 -RRB-, who both won # 75,000.
Brenda -LRB- February 9, 2006 -RRB- won # 57,000, which makes her the next highest, with Mally Welburn -LRB- November 22, 2005 -RRB- winning # 54,000 and with Lee Hartland December 22, 2005, Sajeela Sarfraz -LRB- March 16, 2006 -RRB- and Hilary Collins -LRB- April 28, 2006 -RRB- all winning # 50,000.
The biggest prize won to date by a player `` no dealing '' until the end and taking the amount contained in their box is # 100,000 by contestant Gaz Hall on May 2, 2006.
He had # 10,000 and # 100,000 left after rejecting an offer of # 35,000.
The payout was all the more remarkable given the weak board Gaz was faced with throughout his game.
He took out the # 250,000 on the first box, and all the big prize values went quickly, barring the # 100,000.
Germaine -LRB- on March 7, 2006 -RRB- was the second player -LRB- first was Jennifer, third was Kirsty, fourth was Morris -RRB- to `` no deal '' all the way to a two-box end game with the top prize still in play, and the only one of these four to have had the # 250,000 in his box.
He chose to deal for # 75,000, perhaps unsurprisingly since the other box contained only # 1.
The two highest sums of money -LRB- # 100,000 and # 250,000 -RRB- have on one occasion been the two remaining figures at the very end, on December 7, 2005 -LRB- this can be expected to happen, on average, once every 231 shows -RRB-.
Unfortunately the contestant, Sara, had dealt early - at # 31,000 - and would have been offered # 175,000 by The Banker -LRB- the highest he has ever made, and probably the highest he would ever make -RRB-.
The blow was only slightly lessened by the revealing of # 100,000 in her box.
Smallest amounts won
To date, four players have received the lowest possible payout of 1p.
On January 3, 2006, Nick Bain was left - after taking out eight consecutive red -LRB- high value -RRB- boxes - with 1p and # 100.
He said `` No Deal '' to The Banker 's offer of # 30, then swapped his # 100 box for the 1p box.
He had earlier said ` No Deal ' to an offer of # 9,000.
On March 1, 2006, Trevor Bruce also went home with 1p.
He was left with 1p, # 250 and, amazingly, the highest figure, # 250,000, as his last three boxes.
# 250,000 was then revealed before he said `` No Deal '' to the Banker 's offer of # 99.
He declined the chance to swap boxes and then opened his own box, which contained 1p.
On April 14, 2006, Good Friday, contestant Fadil Osman left with 1p when he declined the offer of # 7,200 with the 1p and the # 35,000 in play, and then further declined a swap.
His box, Box 6, contained the 1p.
This game was particularly unusual in that the banker, for the first time ever, kept the same offer for three rounds, at # 6,100 -LRB- and then halved it in the penultimate round to # 3,050 -RRB-.
On April 25, 2006, Dave Ellis became the fourth player to walk away with 1p, on the show 's 150th edition.
He turned down an offer of # 10,150 in the third round, before taking out the # 50,000 and the # 10,000 -LRB- at the time the two highest values remaining. -RRB-
He was left with 1p and # 5, No Dealed at # 1.50 and opened 1p after declining a swap.
The other lowest wins are Raj -LRB- November 29, 2005 -RRB- and Joan -LRB- June 10, 2006 -RRB-, both of whom won just 10p, and six contestants have left with # 1 - Mike -LRB- March 2, 2006 -RRB-, Barbara -LRB- March 20, 2006 -RRB-, Janet -LRB- March 31, 2006 -RRB-, Gary -LRB- May 11, 2006 -RRB-, Raj -LRB- May 19, 2006 -RRB- and Simone -LRB- May 29, 2006 -RRB-.
Most money lost
On May 6, 2006, contestant Morris Simpson, with the # 20,000 and # 250,000 values still in play, rejected an offer of # 101,000 - his subsequent win of # 20,000 marked the largest loss -LRB- # 81,000 -RRB- in active play in terms of the difference between the highest offer and eventual sum won.
Morris had said numerous times during the game that he had planned `` to go all the way '', and that he was convinced that the quarter of a million was in his box.
The swap was offered to Morris, and had he adopted box 7 -LRB- belonging to contestant Max -RRB- he would have walked away as the show 's first quarter of a millionaire.
Nevertheless, Morris 's final comment of `` no regrets '' showed his desire to play the game for the game 's sake.
This game was also notable for the other contestants paying tribute to Morris ' famous rhymes as they opened their boxes.
The most money lost by a contestant who ended up winning a very low amount -LRB- less than # 1,000 -RRB- was by Simone on May 29, 2006, she rejected an offer of # 25,500 at one stage in the game and eventually left with just # 1.
The most money missed out on by a player dealing too early was by Debbie -LRB- June 17, 2006 -RRB- who dealt for # 15,000 before eventually revealing # 250,000 in her box - a potential gain of # 235,000.
This may have seemed like a bad deal, but when she dealt, apart from the quarter-million, her only other remaining boxes were four blues, so playing on would have been a major gamble.
An even more remarkable feature of Debbie ` s game was that at the final round, the two remaining boxes were the 1p and the # 250,000.
This record, of course, excludes players who may have been offered the chance to swap their box for one containing the # 250,000 had they played on.
Lowest deal and offer
The lowest deal accepted was by contestant Gerry `` Geordie '' Reynolds on February 1, 2006 for the amount of # 20, the two remaining boxes being worth 10p -LRB- his own box -RRB- and # 100.
He had previously said ` No Deal ' to an offer of # 5,000.
Geordie subsequently revealed in The Sun Newspaper -LRB- February 2 2006 -RRB- that he had spent the night before his game undergoing tests for a suspected heart attack in Bristol Royal Infirmary and had actually collapsed during the recording of the program the previous day -LRB- this was referred to during shows recorded that day, and his place opening the boxes temporarily taken over by the floor manager -RRB-.
The revelation that he played the game following 32 hours without sleep was the subject of considerable debate.
The next lowest deal was made by Jason on May 22, 2006 who accepted an offer of # 300 with the last two boxes remaining containing 1p and # 750.
To complete his extraordinary bad luck, his box contained the # 750 so he was never going to join the `` 1p club '' anyway.
The lowest offer made by the Banker in active play -LRB- as opposed to `` hypothetical '' offers when the contestant has already dealt -RRB- was the offer of 64p made to Raj in his # 1 game on May 19, 2006 with 50p and # 1 left.
Contestant Paul on November 8, 2005 received a low hypothetical offer of 60p with two boxes -LRB- 50p and # 1 -RRB- remaining.
Luckily for him, however, he had already dealt for # 6,500.
The lowest first offer was made to contestant John on February 18, 2006 - he received a `` joke '' offer of # 8 due to having insulted the Banker in a previous show.
The second lowest was made to Wayne on June 21, 2006, when he received an opening offer of # 9.99 for similar reasons - his lucky number was 9 and featured strongly in all his offers, including his eventual deal for just # 999 after having rejected # 19,999.
After dealing however, he managed to eliminate the # 10,000, the highest amount available at the time, and theoretically beat the banker.
Number of appearances
The contestant who appeared on the most shows ever was Lucy Harrington, who was on 50 shows first appearing on February 1, 2006 replacing contestant Mumtaz.
On March 30, 2006, after two months of opening boxes, she finally got to play her game.
She had two previous contestants, John G and Fin, join her and be seated in the audience.
She took out the biggest four amounts within the first three rounds.
Very unfortunately, she went on until the end when she opened her own box, which contained # 5.
She had previously turned down an offer of # 2,500 with the # 5 and # 10,000 left in play.
She did, however, receive a mini replica of a Deal or No Deal box, with a `` 50 '' on the front, and her name, as a `` red number '' inside the box.
On March 25, 2006, she was also selected by contestant Nancy to join her in a luxury spa for two for a weekend.
Finally, at a crucial stage of Lucy 's game, contestant JT offered to give Lucy # 1,000 if she ended up with the # 5 and he won more than # 1,000 on his game.
He went on to win # 39,000, and it is believed he kept his promise.
Nobody has come close to Lucy 's run, but the next longest running contestants are Karen, Sarah and Raj who all waited until their 33rd show to play -LRB- although Sarah and Raj both missed shows through illness during their run -RRB-.
The contestant who has appeared on the least amount of shows before playing -LRB- not counting the original set of contestants when the show started -RRB- was contestant Garvan who played on just his 9th show, on January 21, 2006.
Francesca -LRB- May 1, 2006 -RRB- played on her 10th show, Terri -LRB- May 9, 2006 -RRB- played on her 11th show, and Janelle -LRB- July 1, 2006 -RRB- played on her 12th show.
Usually, contestants are on for approximately 15-25 shows -LRB- over time, the average will mathetically tend toward 22 shows -RRB- - it was initially said that each day 's player was selected at random, though the producers have denied ever making this claim, and it may have originated from the Channel 4 press office rather than the producers.
The flashing up of names on the board at the start of the show gives the impression of `` randomness '' but in practice, the order of playing contestants is decided in advance by the production team - there is no particular pattern but recent speculation suggests that the ` bigger ' characters are often chosen for the prime time Saturday shows.
In addition, the player 's family members are often in the audience on their relation 's show -LRB- though this is not always the case, and several players have had relatives in the audience for other shows but not their own -RRB-.
Show trivia
On January 2, 2006, the day before Nick Bain 's 1p win, Irene became the first contestant to take up The Banker 's offer of swapping the boxes ; this offer is usually -LRB- but not always -RRB- made once there are just two boxes left in play.
Unfortunately she swapped her # 250 box for just # 5 after saying ` No Deal ' to # 100.
On the show on June 6, 2006, contestant Suzanne was offered a swap instead of a deal in the first round, which she accepted.
This is the first time a swap has been offered at the beginning of the game in the UK show 's history.
The January 6, 2006 edition saw contestant Pat become the first contestant to swap the final two boxes and win the higher of the two amounts, in this case # 3,000.
Her original box contained just # 100.
On February 25, 2006, the show celebrated its 100th edition.
Contestant Anna won # 43,000 but dealt two deals too soon.
After playing on to see where the money was, she was left with the # 1 box and the # 250,000 box.
She would then have been offered # 91,000 - interestingly higher than what Germaine was actually offered in the same situation - and the # 250,000 turned out to be in her box all along.
Nancy -LRB- March 25, 2006 -RRB- also was left with # 1 and # 250,000 as her final two boxes, but had previously dealt at # 18,500.
She would have received an offer of # 91,000 as Anna would have, but thankfully only ever had the # 1 in her own box.
On April 4, 2006, contestant Kirsty became the first person to go all the way for the top prize still in play.
She was left with the # 75,000 and the # 250,000, before declining the swap from the Banker.
Unfortunately she won the lowest of the two amounts, # 75,000.
Even more remarkably, she had the # 75,000, # 100,000, and # 250,000 as the last three boxes.
The # 100,000 was taken out before the offer of # 125,000 was given - the highest offer in active play.
On May 6, 2006, contestant Morris Simpson was the second to go all the way for the top prize.
Only with the # 20,000 and # 250,000 remaining, he declined the swap from the Banker because he believed the number of his box - 16 - was lucky as it was the same number as his birthdate.
However, it only contained # 20,000.
No contestant has yet accepted one of the first two offers from the Banker.
However, 8 players to date -LRB- Jenni, Andrew, Beryl, Flash, Johnnie, Lofty, James and Melanie -RRB- have dealt on the third offer.
The most commonly won amount is # 20,000 - As of 1 July, 13 contestants have left with this amount, 10 by dealing and 3 by opening their box containing it.
Dealing : Becky -LRB- 28 November -RRB- ; Andy -LRB- 30 November -RRB- ; Dave -LRB- 5 January -RRB- ; Lisa -LRB- 6 March -RRB- ; Dave -LRB- 23 March -RRB- ; Pete -LRB- 11 April -RRB- ; Francesca -LRB- 1 May -RRB- ; Rich -LRB- 25 May -RRB- ; Frank -LRB- 18 June -RRB- ; Shirley -LRB- 22 June -RRB-.
No Dealing to the end : Vanessa -LRB- 2 February -RRB- ; Morris -LRB- 6 May -RRB- ; Ron -LRB- 16 June -RRB-.
The most common final pairing of boxes to remain in play together at the end of a game is # 500 and # 20,000.
Amazingly, although the probability of any pair remaining to the end is 1 in 231, # 500 and # 20,000 have been the final two five times.
Five of the amounts on the game board have yet to be won by a contestant playing on to the end and opening their box - these are 50p, # 50, # 100, # 750 and of course the top prize, # 250,000.
On several occasions a waiting contestant has missed one or more shows through illness, and usually their place has remained empty and their box opened by a neighbouring player until they return.
However, on the May 11, 2006 show, absent contestant Raj was replaced by a new contestant James.
This led to speculation that he would not return, however the following day Raj 's place was empty again and James moved to the slot vacated by the previous day 's player -LRB- becoming the first player to move positions in the wings -RRB-.
So there was no new player that day.
The reason why Raj was replaced on the first show was possibly because another contestant, Sarah, was also off ill and the producers did not want two empty spaces - Raj returned to the show for the game broadcast on May 16.
However three unfortunate contestants -LRB- Clive, Audrey and Joseph -RRB- have left the show without playing their game.
On March 29, 2006, contestant Aaron Bell eliminated five blue -LRB- low -RRB- numbers in the first round.
-LRB- This was only done once before, during Shell 's game, 9 November 2005, though on the show, Noel wrongly stated that Aaron was the first. -RRB-
This led the Banker to make the highest starting offer the show has ever seen at a massive # 15,000.
In the second round, he eliminated two more blues -LRB- for a record opening sequence of seven -RRB- and one red, and was offered the highest amount ever for a second round, # 30,000.
He ` No Dealed ' and went on to win the slightly lower sum of # 25,000, dealing after the fourth offer from the Banker.
However, his game was even more remarkable given the fact that his box turned out to contain just 50p.
Since March 21, 2006 -LRB- Matt 's game -RRB-, Noel has had a different symbol on his right hand every day, usually visible while he converses with The Banker.
It has been suggested that these are a symbol of Noel 's belief in the Cosmic Ordering Service, a spiritual belief that involves requesting a wish from the cosmos in the hope that it will consequently come true.
However, in an interview with the TV Times -LRB- issue dated 13-19 May 2006 -RRB-, Noel said that this has nothing to do with Cosmic Ordering, and that all will soon be revealed.
As of early July 2006 no one has won the quarter of a million, but eight people 's boxes have contained it :
November 10, 2005 - Natalie -LRB- who dealt at # 22,000 -RRB-
November 24, 2005 - Mally -LRB- who dealt at # 54,000 -RRB-
February 11, 2006 - Daz -LRB- who dealt at # 45,000 -RRB-
February 25, 2006 - Anna -LRB- who dealt at # 43,000 -RRB-
March 7, 2006 - Germaine -LRB- who dealt at # 75,000 -RRB-
March 28, 2006 - Bob -LRB- who dealt at # 27,000 -RRB-
May 24, 2006 - Patricia -LRB- who dealt at # 32,000 -RRB-
June 17, 2006 - Debbie -LRB- who dealt at # 15,000 -RRB-
The 150th Show -LRB- Dave E 's game -RRB- was broadcast on 25 April 2006.
This was highlighted by Noel Edmonds at the start of the show, suggesting it would be a good occasion for the first # 250,000 winner - as it happened, it produced the opposite outcome as the contestant joined the `` 1p club ''.
The open box incidentOn April 29, 2006, during Massimo 's game, Tom, who held box number four accidentally knocked over his box and it landed on the floor.
The seal on the box was released as a consequence of the fall, which revealed the box to have a red number.
From the show, it was clear to see the number ended in three zeros, -LRB- believed to be # 100,000 but it has n't been confirmed -RRB-.
As a result, the game was stopped while a decision was made on what to do.
Eventually it was agreed that the remaining amounts would be shuffled to ensure fair play and the game was allowed to continue.
The contestants were given their former box numbers back -LRB- eg ; Massimo with Box 6, Tom with Box 4, etc. -RRB- but with the newly reshuffled amounts inside.
The recording of the show was then continued as if nothing had happened so that the incident could have been edited out ; however Channel 4 aired this section of the program anyway.
He went on to take a # 7,400 deal.
On June 1, 2006, contestant John `` Buzz '' Busby had the worst opening round in Deal or No Deal history, removing the three highest amounts - # 250,000, # 100,000 and # 75,000 - as well as two other reds, # 10,000 and # 15,000.
This brought an opening offer of # 514.
-LRB- Buzz is a Frank Sinatra fan ; 514 relates to the day - 14 May 1998 - which Sinatra died -RRB-.
Despite this start, he recovered to win # 9,800.
The unwanted feat of an `` all-red '' opening round has also been achieved by Audrey -LRB- December 12 -RRB-, Irene -LRB- January 2 -RRB- and Michael -LRB- April 21 -RRB- - Irene was the only one of these to end up winning a very low amount, further proof that the way a game starts often gives little indication of how it will end up.
The banker normally only offers a box swap to the contestant once they have said no deal to the sixth and final offer.
However, on June 6, 2006, he did not make a financial first offer after the first five boxes were opened.
Instead, he offered the contestant, Suzanne, with a chance to swap the box.
The contestant did swap her box, box 19, for box 3.
Box 19 later turned out to contain only # 500 and her new box, box 3, contained # 3,000.
Fortunately, she dealt at # 47,000 earlier in the game.
This was also the same day that former contestant Morris Simpson who turned down an offer of # 101,000 only to win # 20,000 -LRB- May 6, 2006 -RRB- appeared on ITV1 's Price Is Right, hosted by Joe Pasquale.
On the 200th show, -LRB- June 16, 2006 -RRB-, Noel revealed certain statistics about the show.
These included trivia such as : contestants whose favorite flavor of crisps are chicken flavor have won on average # 22,500, compared to beef which has won an average of only # 9,500.
Contestants born with the star sign Pisces win on average # 31,000.
On June 17, 2006, contestant Debbie -LRB- who started by opening 4 blues and one red - a reasonably strong board -RRB-, had a sudden surge of bad luck when she opened up 8 red numbers in the following 9 boxes.
She eventually got to 5-box-point with both the 1p and the # 250,000 -LRB- among 3 other blues -RRB-, when she dealt for # 15,000.
However, when she played on to see if she had dealt at the right time, she found 3 blue sums of money, and became the first person to only have the 1p and # 250,000 remaining.
After hearing the hypothetical offer of # 60,000 her box was opened, containing the # 250,000.
Viewers ' competition
Viewers are invited to phone in -LRB- at premium rate -RRB- or via the Channel 4 website -LRB- free of charge -RRB- where an audience member will select a box from a further three boxes -LRB- box 1, box 2 and box 3 -RRB- and the caller will win the money contained within that box.
The boxes usually contain # 500, # 1,000 or # 5,000.
On Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, these amounts are doubled.
Entries were restricted to 50 per household but since the start of series 2, it has been reduced to 30.
On Valentine 's Day, a special edition was broadcast ; the viewer prizes were # 5,000, # 10,000 and # 20,000.
This also saw the start of one of the 22 contestants introducing the competition via a voiceover - it had previously been Alex Lovell, though she continues to read the terms and conditions at the end.
Also on Easter Monday, another special edition was broadcast, and like Valentine 's Day, the viewer prizes were # 5,000, # 10,000 and # 20,000.
On May 17, 2006 Noel Edmonds promised a special treat on May 18 ; the treat was an introduction of a `` Double Money Thursday '', where, like the other `` Double Money '' days, the viewer prizes were doubled.
The next day, May 18, 2006, the viewer prizes were # 1,000, # 5,000 and # 15,000.
In this instance, Deal or No Deal paid # 15,000 to a viewer at home.
This was a record until June 15, 2006 during double deal week, when a box containing # 30,000 was opened.
On May 20, 2006, a Eurovision Special was held, where the boxes were gold with stars on them, and the contestants were dressed up as Eurovision singers.
On that day, viewers were able to win # 5,000, # 10,000 or # 30,000, a maximum for the program.
Box 1 was chosen, which only contained # 5,000.
During Double Deal Week, the boxes contained # 1,000, # 2,000 and # 10,000.
If the # 10,000 was n't found in that show, it would rollover to the next show, which will have # 20,000 up for grabs.
The highest sum of money on offer would go on to be # 30,000, # 40,000 etc. until it had been found, in which case it would return to # 10,000 again.
Currently, the highest viewer-win is # 30,000, so we have yet to see a 4, 6, 8 or 9 tag inside a box.
Media image
The Observer interviewed Edmonds in relation to the show on January 29, 2006, quoting Edmonds as saying that his scenes with The Banker bring out his `` inner actor ''.
He revealed his passion for the show and his admiration for the individual community spirit within it, as well as his ambition -LRB- now fulfilled -RRB- that it would eventually hold a Saturday evening prime time slot.
In a review by columnist A. A. Gill the show was described as ` like putting heroin in your TV remote '.
The Banker
Born on May 12th of an unknown year, The Banker is played by `` Himself '', as stated on the end credits.
He has, on occasion, talked to the player via the Bakelite telephone on the contestant 's desk.
The character was called `` The Dealer '' in pre-publicity for the show ; evidently, the name was changed before recording started -LRB- possibly to avoid any connotations of drugs, though the name `` Banker '' also appears to be used in other countries ' versions so the use of `` Dealer '' here may have simply been a mistake by the Channel 4 Press Office -RRB-.
Channel 4 's website referred to him as such though on their listings page until April 12 when after a number of complaints, including an organised campaign by posters to the forum of the website Cook 'd and Bomb 'd, the text was changed to say The Banker.
The identity of The Banker has not been revealed - one theory is that it is the series producer Glenn Hugill, although he has refused to either confirm or deny this in the past, continuing to refer to The Banker in the third person.
However, it is clear that whoever is `` playing '' The Banker has some considerable improvisational skills, as the offers and Banker 's banter frequently respond to something the contestant has done or said during gameplay.
Also, when contestants are handed the phone The Banker frequently is able to make them dissolve into hysterics with his unheard chat.
This would suggest that Glenn is indeed the public voice of The Banker, as he has had previous acting experience.
The Daily Mirror and Jo Whiley reported on April 3, 2006 that the actual offers made by The Banker were calculated by Glenn and two ` Executives ' -LRB- believed to be executive producers Richard Osman and Richard Hague -RRB- but that Glenn has the final decision.
On March 9, 2006, contestant Paula - a barber - enquired about The Banker 's hair, to which Noel replied, `` I do n't think he has much ''.
Other traits have also been suggested for The Banker, such as the fact that he is a bachelor, he refers to his mother on many occasions, and that, according to many of the contestants, he has a `` nice voice, very Oxbridge '', the character of The Banker does not necessarily bear any relation to the person `` playing '' him.
On March 10, 2006, he spoke to a member of the audience, named Shaun, who had been giving his own analysis on the game but made a rather unrealistic prediction of The Banker 's next offer.
He ridiculed him by making him say out loud `` I, Shaun, will never be a banker.
# 35,000 was a silly thing to say.
The Banker is always right ! ''
On March 23, 2006, contestant Dave Cheeseman mentioned about Chinese New Year.
The Banker said that whilst Dave was born in the year of the dog, the banker himself was born in the Chinese year of the dragon.
This gives a clue to his age, probably 42 or 54 years old - though the Banker 's later reference to almost making the Munich Olympics (1972) as a swimmer suggests the age of the `` character '' may be 54.
Although The Banker 's speaking voice has never been heard on-screen, he has been clearly heard laughing several times to date, when Noel has held the telephone within audible distance to his microphone on his shirt.
The first time was during the end of the aforementioned Nick Bain 's 1p show.
On March 30, 2006, The banker gave contestant Lucy a mini ` Deal or No Deal ' box with 50 on the front.
This was because it was her 50th show.
The mini box also contained her name where the amount usually goes and a poem saying how The Banker wished that she win a penny.
In March 2006, The Guardian described The Banker as ` a cult character in the making and no mistake ' and included him in their hotlist.
On April 1, 2006, the end credits stated that The Banker 's name is Richard Oldman.
This however, was an April Fool 's Day joke ; Richard Oldman can be segmented to ` Rich Hard Old Man '.
Alternatively, this could be an in-joke reference to the two executive producers, both called Richard.
On April 13, 2006, the Banker gave an offer of # 4,100 to contestant Maxine.
She started saying how the Banker was actually quite ` sexy ' because he had quick wit and humor, she liked older men, and he was rich -LRB- `` what more could a woman want '' -RRB-.
At that point the phone rang again, and The Banker changed his offer from # 4,100 to # 6,100, which was a first for Deal or No Deal.
Maxine declined the offer and left with # 10,000 at the end of the show - the amount in her box.
On April 15, 2006, Holy Saturday, Gabrielle won # 1,000.
When she revealed that the money was going to charity, the phone rang and The Banker said -LRB- three times -RRB- that just that once that he would double the winnings to # 2,000.
This was a Deal or No Deal first, and shows that the Banker has a ` Compassionate Streak ', as Noel put it.
On May 6, 2006, The Banker produced another poem, in honor of Morris ' fondness for speaking in rhyme when he opened boxes in other people 's games, called `` Ode to Morris ''.
On May 12, 2006, The Banker revealed that that day was his birthday, as well as that of the contestant 's mother.
It is unsure whether May 12th is The Banker 's birthday, due to the fact that three shows are filmed per day, so his birthday could be several days - even weeks - before that.
That said, Noel 's birthday celebrations took place on the show due to be transmitted on that day.
The Banker said he was ` full of cakes and fine wine ' but had not received any presents.
On May 13, 2006, The Banker jokingly offered contestant Max `` 2 Weeks of Therapy ''.
He also revealed that `` the position of Mrs Banker is currently vacant ! ''
On May 15, 2006, The Banker said that he would offer double his offer if contestant Simon could guess it correctly.
He guessed correctly at # 2,800, the same amount that he said a previous contestant, Susie, would get, thus the offer doubled to # 5,600.
At some time in the past it was revealed that The Banker enjoyed the Eurovision song contest, this was taken further with the Eurovision-themed show on May 20, 2006.
On May 25, 2006, At the time of the banker 's offer, Noel Edmonds questioned the East Wing on what would be the offer given to contestant Rich.
When the banker did make the call, he criticised the East Wing and labeled them as `` fools '' due to the fact that they could not guess his offer.
As a result, the offer was # 5,146, an offer that seemed impossible to guess.
On May 26, 2006, the banker made a `` joke '' offer of '' # 2 and a copy of the rules '' to contestant June, due to her apparent confusion at how the game worked.
Fortunately, she had dealt earlier at # 23,000.
On June 3, 2006, the banker gave a present of a bunch of 22 red roses to contestant Stevie, thanking her for the players ' games she destroyed by having high value amounts in her boxes.
On June 6, 2006, the Banker offered contestant Suzanne, instead of a monetary first offer, he offered her a swap, the option to swap her box, after the first 5 boxes, with any other box she had a ` feeling ' for.
Suzanne accepted the swap, and swapped box 19 for box 3.
The Banker did this because he believed she would n't walk at the first offer, and he saw her as a kindred spirit, because he used to be a great swimmer -LRB- apparently -RRB-, and Suzanne was an Olympic-class swimmer before retiring to teach young children.
The Banker said he was known as ` The Wet Rocket ' because at school other children would throw his abacus into the school pond, and he would dive in for it so quickly.
She opened Box 19, her original box, in the third round, it contained # 500.
On June 12, 2006, Carlton said The Banker `` sounds like the Scream man ''.
On June 16, 2006 -LRB- the 200th show -RRB-, the banker said that he used to be a psychic, as the day 's contestant, Ron was a hypnotherapist, and predicted that he was going have the worst round in the show 's history.
However this prediction was proven wrong as Ron took out three blues in the next three boxes.
On the same show, the banker asked to talk to a member of the audience because he was angry with Noel.
He spoke to Georgina, who told Ron the offer.
On June 16, 2006, the banker offered contestant Chrissie # 8,853, which he claimed was equal to the height of Mount Everest in metres.
Chrissie had earlier said that she had climbed 19,500 feet up the mountain.
However, the banker 's encylopedias clearly are n't that up to date, as the Wikipedia entry for the said mountain reveals that its height is actually 8,848 metres, and that therefore, the banker clearly offered Chrissie # 5 too much !
On June 18, 2006, -LRB- Fathers Day -RRB- Noel asked the Banker whether he had any offspring off his own.
The Banker replied by saying he had one estranged son, when asked why he was estranged the Banker said that his son was a charity worker.
On June 23, 2006, during Bianca 's game The Banker offered a swap again instead of a monatary first offer, due to the fact that she had box 22 on the table, and it had contained # 250,000 the last two times it had been there.
She declined the swap.
During the second offer the Banker asked to speak to Bianca 's mother who was in the audience.
They talked for a while and then she put the phone down and said the offer was # 10,000.
Noel said that she could have made the offer up, so he picked up the phone and ` dialed ' the Banker.
Noel said `` is it true you offered her # 50,000 ! ''
# 10,000 was the offer, and she declined the offer.
It was unclear what the Banker 's phone number was, but it was presumably just for show.
During this show, Noel referred to the banter between Bianca 's mother and The Banker by calling her `` the potential seventh Mrs Banker '', perhaps implying that the Banker has been married six times already.
A second wife was mentioned during Debbie 's game, though this was presumably as a joke by The Banker, who, through Noel, said : `` My second wife was called was Mina.
I was mean, and she was meaner ! ''
UK box values
Image : Dond board.
The gameboard for the UK version of Deal or No Deal # 1,000
# 3,000
# 5,000
# 10,000
# 15,000
# 20,000
# 35,000
# 50,000
# 75,000
# 100,000
# 250,000
On the show graphics, the values in the left-hand column are displayed against a blue background, and those in the right-hand column against an orange-red background, and are frequently referred to by host and contestants alike as `` blue '' and `` red '' amounts respectively.
Generally, removal of a `` blue amount '' is applauded by the audience, while expression of pity is common with the removal of `` red amounts ''.
However, the appearance of the # 1000 -LRB- the lowest `` red amount '' -RRB- is often applauded due to its relatively low value.
-LRB- Edmonds will often shout `` Thousand, that 's fine !
That 's alright ! '' -RRB-
This, to a lesser extent, sometimes applies also to the two or three lowest red values, which depending on the circumstances, are often called ` honorary blues '.
Catchphrases and presenting style
Each show begins with the introduction : `` A quarter of a million pounds.
22 identical sealed boxes.
And no questions... except one : Deal or No Deal ? ''
As well as the obvious `` Deal or No Deal ? ''
, Edmonds has introduced a variety of sayings and catchphrases, normally hyperbolic, to the show.
He has met with varying success and these terms have come and gone.
The language used in the show has, however, become an integral part of the gameplay and drama as has Edmonds ' dramatic gestures, tone and flamboyant movement around the set and in the audience.
Recently Edmonds has become increasingly bizarre in his on-set behavior, at times eating fruit, squaring up to contestants inches from their face, sitting off camera and even off stage, massaging contestants to relax them, smelling their shoes, writing on their hands, running around and shouting.
His catchphrases and presenting style have now come close to self-parody.
A selection of Noel 's catchphrases and quotes are below.
Introductions
`` Good afternoon\/evening West Wing.
Good afternoon\/evening East Wing, and good afternoon\/evening to you. ''
- Noel 's greeting at the start of the show.
`` Some people call it an entertainment drama, some the Red Box Club. ''
- introduction to the show used frequently by Noel.
In fact, Noel himself appears to be the only person who uses either phrase.
`` Welcome to our unique entertainment drama. ''
`` Welcome to the Dream Factory ! ''
`` Welcome to Planet Tension ! ''
`` Risk, reward and timing. ''
- the three key steps to success in Deal or No Deal.
Contestant selection
`` Will it be pence, pocket money or a life-changing sum for... ? ''
`` Take the Walk of Wealth ! ''
`` Please come and join me at the Pound Table. ''
`` Whose turn is it for a session in the Scare Chair ?
`` Will it be agony or ecstasy for... ? ''
`` Will it be short change or life-change for... ? ''
`` About to scale the money mountain is... ''
`` Will it be a fortune or a fiasco for... ''
Starting the game
`` It 's your show. ''
- Edmonds likes to emphasise that the player is in total control
`` Channel 4 is all yours. ''
- another phrase that Edmonds likes to emphasise that the player is in total control
`` Just a little bit of housekeeping, first... '' - a phrase Edmonds uses to indicate the legal stuff at the start of each new game
During the game
`` Do n't get the money fever '' - Noel 's advice at the start of the game, meaning ` Do n't hit the big amounts yet ! '
`` Open the box ! ''
- sometimes accompanied by a flamboyant gesture.
`` Keep it low, keep it blue. ''
`` Welcome to the game ! ''
- usually said to the newest contestant when it is their turn to open their box.
`` Let 's go on a Blues Cruise. ''
`` NO ! ''
- shouted by Noel when a high red is revealed early on, or when a low blue is revealed once the contestant has already dealt.
`` Noooooooooooooo ! ''
-LRB- elongated tone, pronounced like oooouuu -RRB- - Said when a contestant tries to open 4 6 in Round 1 boxes.
When this happens Noel tends to write ' 1 2 3 ' on the contestant 's hand.
`` That 's all right ! ''
- said by Noel when a contestant opens one of the low red boxes -LRB- usually # 1000, # 3000 or # 5000 -RRB- which are n't large enough to influence the outcome.
These low reds have also been referred to as `` honorary blues '' as in the majority of situations revealing them is almost as good as hitting a blue.
`` Let 's have a rapid\/quick round. ''
`` Why not ?
Let 's have a quickie. ''
`` This is a pivotal round '' - often said by Noel when a round is to have a significance on how the game will end.
`` We know what we do n't want to see ! ''
`` You 're still obsessed with the reds ! ''
`` You are besotted with that right hand side ! ''
`` It 's not how you start, it 's how you finish ''
`` You 're getting the Red Mist. ''
`` You 've got a red fetish. ''
`` The Power Five '' - the top 5 sums of money, i.e. # 35,000, # 50,000, # 75,000, # 100,000 and # 250,000.
This is often adjusted to `` Power Four '' or `` Power Three '' after the # 35,000 and # 50,000 have been removed.
`` NOT the quarter of a million, NOT the hundred thousand ! ''
`` We do n't want to see one of the big numbers ! ''
`` That 's the safety net gone ! ''
- when the second highest amount left in play is revealed, leaving the largest value exposed.
`` We have a one-box game ! ''
- when the safety net has gone ; a ` one-box game ' means that there is only one prize left worth winning.
`` It 's all or peanuts. ''
- said upon creation of a particularly volatile one-box game, a reinterpretation of the phrase `` all or nothing '' -LRB- a player will always win at least 1p -RRB-.
`` We are now in damage limitation territory. ''
- when there are more high amounts remaining than can all be opened in that round.
`` The Black Widow '' - nickname given to -LRB- female -RRB- box-opening contestants with a record of frequently damaging games by revealing high red values.
The original `` Black Widow '' was Aileen, who appeared on the show in January-February 2006, followed by Gabrielle in March-April 2006, who also gained a reputation for consistently having one of the `` Power 5. ''
The third `` Black Widow '' was Stevie, in May 2006, after only having 5 blues in her boxes, in 26 shows.
She went on to win # 1,300, the lowest amount of money she could 've won in her game -LRB- her box was # 3,000, and all her other offers were higher than # 1,300 -RRB-.
A male contestant -LRB- John -RRB- with the same reputation received the nickname `` Terminator ''.
General advice & observations
`` The right deal at the right time ! ''
`` Play the money, do n't play the game. ''
`` Do n't get caught in the headlights. ''
`` Do n't be seduced by the board ! ''
`` Do n't pull a ` Howie ', we all know what happened. ''
`` You 've still got a life changing sum of money. ''
`` It 's what 's right for you. ''
- after a player deals unexpectedly.
`` Could you be\/have been our first ever quarter-of-a-millionaire ? ''
`` This is an extraordinary game. ''
`` OOOOooooo ! ''
-LRB- A long gasp often remarked Edmonds when the banker gives a very poor offer -RRB-
The 1p Club
The 1p Club is Noel 's name for the group of the four winners of the lowest possible prize.
`` You 're not joining the 1p Club ! ''
- when the player opens the 1p box.
`` Four men in a phone box. ''
- describing the four members of The 1p Club.
-LRB- Initially, this phrase was first used when there were ` three men in a phone box '.
This phrase originated from the fact that the club was so exclusive that it could hold its AGM in a phone box. -RRB-
Commercial links
Noel usually announces a commercial break in a variety of extremely corny and cheesy ways such as :
In the show 's initial weeks on-air, Noel sought to link into commercial breaks by playing on the word `` break '' - for example, a box-opening contestant would be told `` they would break the player 's heart '' if they revealed a large sum of money, swiftly followed by a cheeky pose to camera : `` did I say break ? ''
Once the possibilities of manipulating the word `` break '' had been exhausted, Noel turned, typically, to the phrases `` I 'm calling a break '', or, `` See you in a moment '', both of which continue to be used regularly.
`` What 's the weight ?
About three minutes while we go to a break. ''
`` This is a real pressure box with a capital P, oh sorry to mention pee, we 're going for a break ''
Noel has taken to grabbing boxes before the contestant can open them and shout `` After the break ! ''
`` I think you 'll be back. ''
Contestant Catchphrases
The contestants also normally say `` ask me the question '' when they have decided whether or not they are going to deal.
Finally, the two sides the contestants stand on have been nicknamed the `` West Wing '' and the `` East Wing ''.
It is common that the contestants and now Noel, shout `` Come on ! ''
throughout the show.
There have also been catchphrases coined by contestants in the wings which have remained in use even after they played their game and departed - for example, `` Keep Going ! ''
-LRB- made popular by contestant Stevie during May 2006 -RRB- and `` Whack out those blues ! ''
-LRB- often quoted more-or-less verbatim by Louise during June 2006 -RRB-.
Criticism
Deal or No Deal has been the subject of criticism from some people as being a classic example of the apparent ` dumbing down ' of modern television.
The premise of the show has been criticised by some for having no intellectual content whatsoever and some have questioned if it is good that a show in which people simply randomly open 22 boxes to reveal numbers is so popular.
Some of the interaction between the contestant in the chair and the contestants in the wings and the contestant in the chair and Noel Edmonds has also been mocked by some.
Contestants often talk about ` having a feeling ' that a box contains a certain color in their box or ` getting vibes ' off the boxes when in reality it is a game of complete chance and the only influence that any player can have on the game is through their decisions whether or not to accept the Banker 's offers.
This has recently been satired by the BBC 's comedy Dead Ringers.
There has also been criticism of the Banker 's tactics and questions asked about the fairness of the game, with offers varying wildly from the surprisingly generous to the frequent offers that are so poor in relation to the state of the game as to virtually force a `` no deal ''.
It has been suggested in some forums that a formula-based approach to offers, as some other countries have used, may be preferable.
However, there is an element of skill in attempting to manipulate the banker into making higher offers, with the player 's relationship with the banker being of great importance.
It has been seen that contestants who state a desire to `` go all the way '', or appear more certain and confident, can attract higher offers.
Contestants can attempt to bluff the banker by appearing more confident than they actually are, or by pretending that they intend to go all the way, and will often be rewarded as the banker realizes that higher offers must be made if he is to shift the player.
To remove this element from the game and use a formula to determine the amount of money would lend weight to the criticism that the player can exert little influence over the game.
It would also remove some of the character from the game, as many offers are based on some detail that is known about the player -LRB- for example, the offer of # 8,853 to Chrissie which was based on the height of Mount Everest, which she had climbed -RRB-, on previous games -LRB- for example the offers of # 5,010 and # 10,005 made to Trevor based on the results of the previous games -RRB-, or other factors.
The humor that can be created by such offers, or even the shock or delight at what seems to be an unusually high or low offer, could be argued to be an important element of the game, much of the charm of which rests on its unpredictability.
In addition, while the contents of the box are purely random, to succeed, players must show an intelligent approach to balancing the risk, as well as having good luck.
Also, it must be remembered that many gameshows throughout television history have relied on varying degrees of luck.
Others have suggested that Channel 4 is verging on Deal or No Deal overkill with the show being aired at least 6 days a week and during ` Double Deal ' week twice a day.
Some contestants have had consistent poor offers throughout their game and then turned out to have a low amount in their box, leading to suggestions the Banker actually knows the contents of the boxes - however, statistical evidence lends no support to this theory.
Episode history
Series 1 -LRB- Episodes 1-66 -RRB-
Series 2 -LRB- Episodes 67-present -RRB-
External links
Official website from Channel 4
UKGameshows.com : Deal or No Deal
Bother 's Bar : Deal or No Deal results archive with commentary
The Observer\/Guardian interview with Edmonds
Deal Or No Deal Forum and Fansite
Deal or No Deal Blog
Endemol Deal or No Deal site
Free UK & US versions plus other cool games
Deal or No Deal : How to play smart
Deal or No Deal Online Game Fan game based on the UK format of the show
Deal Or No Deal Online Game Another online Deal Or No Deal game, UK format
editDeal or No Deal
International versions Australia Netherlands Philippines Romania United Kingdom USA
Retrieved from `` http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deal_or_No_Deal_%28UK_game_show%29 ''
Categories : British game shows Channel 4 television programs Deal or No Deal
ViewsArticle Discussion Edit this page History Personal toolsSign in \/ create account Navigation
Main Page
Community Portal
Featured articles
Current events
Recent changes
Random article
Contact Wikipedia
Donations
Search
Toolbox
What links here
Related changes
Upload file
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Cite this article
This page was last modified 23:58, 3 July 2006.
All text is available under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License.
-LRB- See Copyrights for details. -RRB-
Wikipedia is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc.
Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers
Fishing for fun is normally done with a fishing rod and line with any number of things to get the fish.
There may be rules that say how many lines and hooks one fisherman can use and how many fish he can catch.
Non-sport fish that are n't said to be worth as much can sometimes be taken by many ways like snagging, bow and arrow, or even gun, because they are seen as competing with more valuable fish.
Their government was much like the United States of America 's government, and it had a similar constitution -LRB- with the 1st amendment all the way to the 12th one -RRB-.
The most important islands are Vanua Levu and Viti Levu.
There are about 844 330 people in Fiji.
The official languages of Fiji are Fijian, English and Hindustani -LRB- a mix of Hindi and Urdu -RRB-.
The official languages of Fiji are Fijian, English and Hindustani -LRB- a mix of Hindi and Urdu -RRB- and Fijian.
The capital city of Fiji is Suva, and the city with the most people is Nadi.
Apricot is a drupe fruit.
Plant : Small to medium sized tree, 8 -- 12 m tall, with a trunk up to 40 cm in diameter with spreading, dense canopy ; leaves are shaped somewhat like a heart, with pointed tips, about 8 cm -LRB- 1\/3 inch -RRB- wide.
1887 - Gustav Ludwig Hertz, quantum physicist, winner of the Nobel Prize in Physics -LRB- died 1975 -RRB-
1908 - Amy Vanderbilt, author on etiquette.
HEADING Births
1835 - Adlai E. Stevenson
1940 - Pele, Brazilian soccer player
1938 - H. John Heinz III
HEADING Deaths
42 BC - Marcus Junius Brutus, suicide
AD 1872 - Théophile Gautier, French writer -LRB- b. 1811 -RRB-
1910 - Chulalongkorn -LRB- Rama V -RRB-, king of Thailand
1915 - W. G. Grace, cricketer
1939 - Zane Grey, American author
1950 - Al Jolson, American singer and actor
1975 - Charles Brokaw, journalist
1983 - Jessica Savitch, journalist
1990 - Louis Althusser, French Marxist philosopher
1998 - Dr. Barnett Slepian, physician
2001 - Ronald William Kirby, British commercial artist
2003 - Tony Capstick, British actor, comedian, musician and broadcaster
2003 - Soong May-ling, widow of Chiang Kai-shek
2004 - Friedel Neuber, German bank manager -LRB- WestLB -RRB-
2004 - Dorothy Comstock Riley, Michigan state supreme court justice
2004 - Lucie Famo, Finland artist
HEADING Events
1946-Edgar Winter, American rock musician
1958-Joe Diffie, American country music singer-songwriter
1969-Linus Torvalds, creator of Linux
Torah is the Hebrew name for the first five books of the Hebrew Bible.
Each of the books in the Torah are seperated into sections called `` Parshiot. ''
A parsha is a hebrew word meaning `` portion. ''
Every Shabbat one parsha is read in the synagogue, but sometimes two are read.
The language the first language of more than than 20% of the people of Wales -LRB- approximately 500,000 people -RRB-.
Many people in Wales understand it, even if they do not speak it all the time.
`` Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone '' was translated into a Welsh version called `` Harri Potter a Maen yr Athronydd '', which means the same thing as the English title.
The Welsh Alphabet has some extra letters that are n't used in English, and does not have some others.
Here is the Welsh alphabet :
On September 19, 2006, the Thai army staged a coup d' état and took power from the Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra.
Addiction is being used to a certain practice.
The drug with the most people who are addicted to it then, is caffeine, since it is the most used drug.
However, few people experience social and body problems to qualify as being medically dependent on caffeine ; thus there is no official diagnosis of caffeine dependence.
But there is a category for caffeine-related problems to cover caffeine intoxication and caffeine withdrawal, both conditions being based on exhibiting an ample number of signs.
Caffeine is found in many foods including coffee, tea, chocolate and many carbonated drinks.
It is also found in medicines that can be bought in the store -LRB- no doctor permission, but legal -RRB-, such as pain relievers, appetite suppressants and cold medicines.
It is actually a lie that black coffee will `` sober up '' an inebriated person but rather it will cause agitation in the person -LRB- Morrison, 1995 -RRB-.
The amount of caffeine in some common foods and drinks is as follows :
More than 750-1000mg a day is dangerous, but people who drink more coffee every day can drink more without getting sick.
Soda drinks with caffeine - 36 to 90 mg in 12 ounces.
Some people think that soft drinks which are light in color do not contain caffeine.
This is not always true.
That is as much caffeine that is in three cups of coffee -LRB- 8oz each cup -RRB-.
He was the president of the United States of America between 1913 and 1921.
In 1917, after the USA were had been neutral, they got involved with the First World War.
Because of Wilson, the League of Nations was founded.
He was a Presbyterian and his family sided with the Confederacy in 1851.
He thought the war could bring an end to war forever.
In 1917, after the USA had been neutral, they got involved with the First World War.
Cardboard
Naziism -LRB- Because they wore light brown shirts -RRB-
Brown is the color that is made when gray or black is mixed with orange, red, or rose -LRB- Brown is not a color of light, and mixing all the colors of light together gives white -RRB-.
Brown is the color of :
Chocolate
Most dirt
Cardboard
HEADING Meaning of brown
Nature -LRB- along with green -RRB-
Naziism -LRB- Because they wore light brown shirts -RRB-
HEADING Shades of brown color comparison chart
Beige -LRB- web color -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # F5F5DC -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 245, 245, 220 -RRB-
Blanched Almond -LRB- web color -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # FFEBCD -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 255, 235, 205 -RRB-
Banana Mania -LRB- Crayola -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # FBE7B2 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 251, 231, 128 -RRB-
Moccasin -LRB- web color -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # FFE4B5 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 255, 228, 182 -RRB-
Peach-Yellow -LRB- Hex : # FADFAD -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 250, 223, 173 -RRB-
Wheat -LRB- web color -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # F5DEB3 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 245, 222, 179 -RRB-
Bisque -LRB- web color -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # FFE4C4 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 255, 228, 196 -RRB-
Navajo White -LRB- web color -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # FFDEAD -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 255, 222, 173 -RRB-
Light Khaki -LRB- X11 `` Khaki '' -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # F0E68C -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 240, 230, 140 -RRB-
Pale Goldenrod -LRB- web color -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # EEE8AA -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 238, 232, 170 -RRB-
Buff -LRB- HexF0DC82 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 240, 220, 130 -RRB-
Flax -LRB- Hex : # EEDC82 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 238, 220, 130 -RRB-
Zinnwaldite -LRB- Hex : # EBC2AF -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 235, 194, 175 -RRB-
Desert Sand -LRB- Crayola -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # EDC9AF -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 237, 201, 175 -RRB-
Ecru -LRB- Hex : # C3B091 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 205, 184, 145 -RRB-
Tan -LRB- Hex : # D2B48C -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 210, 180, 140 -RRB-
Khaki -LRB- HTML\/CSS -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # C3B091 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 195, 176, 145 -RRB-
Dark Khaki -LRB- X11 `` Dark Khaki '' -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # BDB76B -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 189, 183, 107 -RRB-
Rosy Brown -LRB- web color -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # BC8F8F -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 188, 143, 143 -RRB-
Terra Cotta -LRB- Hex : # E2725B -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 226, 114, 91 -RRB-
Bittersweet -LRB- Crayola -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # FE6F5E -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 254, 111, 94 -RRB-
Sandy Brown -LRB- web color -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # F4A460 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 244, 164, 96 -RRB-
Goldenrod -LRB- web color -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # DAA520 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 218, 165, 32 -RRB-
Brass -LRB- Hex : # C3A368 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 195, 163, 104 -RRB-
Pale Taupe -LRB- Mouse -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # BC987E -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 188, 152, 26 -RRB-
Antique Brass -LRB- Crayola -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # C88A65 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 200, 138, 101 -RRB-
Bronze -LRB- Hex : # CD7F32 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 205, 127, 50 -RRB-
Ochre -LRB- Hex : # CC7722 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 204, 119, 34 -RRB-
Copper -LRB- Hex : # B87333 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 184, 115, 51 -RRB-
Dark Goldenrod -LRB- web color -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # B8860B -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 184, 134, 11 -RRB-
Sandy Taupe -LRB- Hex : # 967117 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 150, 113, 23 -RRB-
Dark Tan -LRB- Hex : # 918151 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 145, 129, 81 -RRB-
Shadow -LRB- Crayola -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # 837050 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 131, 112, 80 -RRB-
Beaver -LRB- Crayola -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # 926F5B -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 146, 111, 91 -RRB-
French Beige -LRB- Hex : # A67B5B -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 166, 123, 91 -RRB-
Pale Brown -LRB- Hex : # 987654 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 152, 118, 54 -RRB-
Peru -LRB- web color -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # CD5700 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 205, 133, 63 -RRB-
Cocoa Bean -LRB- web color Chocolate -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # D2691E -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 210, 105, 30 -RRB-
Tenne -LRB- Tawny -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # CD5700 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 205, 87, 0 -RRB-
Burnt Orange -LRB- Hex : # CC5500 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 204, 85, 0 -RRB-
Mahogany -LRB- Hex : # C04000 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 192, 64, 0 -RRB-
Dark Terra Cotta -LRB- Hex : # CC4E3C -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 204, 78, 92 -RRB-
Chestnut -LRB- Indian Red color -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # CD5C5C -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 205, 92, 92 -RRB-
Fuzzy Wuzzy Brown -LRB- Crayola -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # C45655 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 196, 86, 55 -RRB-
Deep Chestnut -LRB- Vermont Maple Syrup -RRB- -LRB- Crayola Chestnut -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # B94E48 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 185, 78, 72 -RRB-
Dark Chestnut -LRB- Hex : # 986960 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 152, 105, 96 -RRB-
Medium Brown -LRB- Crayola Brown -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # AF593E -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 175, 89, 67 -RRB-
Sienna -LRB- web color -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # A05220 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 160, 82, 45 -RRB-
BROWN -LRB- Hex : # 964B00 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 150, 75, 0 -RRB-
Saddle Brown -LRB- web color -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # 8B4513 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 139, 69, 13 -RRB-
Rust -LRB- Hex : # 64417 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 183, 65, 14 -RRB-
Russet -LRB- Hex : # 804618 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 128, 70, 27 -RRB-
Burnt Umber -LRB- Hex : # 8A3324 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 138, 51, 36 -RRB-
Red-Brown -LRB- web color Brown -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # A52A2A -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 165, 42, 42 -RRB-
Burgundy -LRB- Hex : # 900020 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 144, 0, 32 -RRB-
Maroon -LRB- Hex : # 800000 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 128, 0, 0 -RRB-
Auburn -LRB- Hex : # 712F26 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 113, 47, 38 -RRB-
Raw Umber -LRB- Hex : # 734A12 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 115, 74, 18 -RRB-
Pullman Brown -LRB- UPS Brown -RRB- -LRB- Hex : # 644117 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 100, 65, 23 -RRB-
Dark Brown -LRB- Hex : # 654321 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 101, 67, 33 -RRB-
Sepia -LRB- Hex : # 734212 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 112, 66, 20 -RRB-
Bole -LRB- Hex : # 79443B -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 121, 68, 59 -RRB-
Medium Taupe -LRB- Hex : # 674C47 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 103, 76, 21 -RRB-
Taupe -LRB- Hex : # 483C32 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 72, 60, 50 -RRB-
Liver -LRB- Hex : # 534B4F -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 83, 75, 79 -RRB-
Bistre -LRB- Hex : # 3D2B1F -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 61, 43, 31 -RRB-
Seal Brown -LRB- Hex : # 321414 -RRB- -LRB- RGB : 50, 20, 20 -RRB-
The Jedi Master known as Yoda -LRB- 896 BBY & ndash ; 4 ABY -RRB-, voiced by Frank Oz, is a fictional character in the Star Wars universe.
He appears in all of the franchise 's installments except for '.
Like many names in Star Wars, the name `` Yoda '' may be etymologically derived from the Sanskrit yoddha -LRB- `` warrior '' -RRB- and\/or the Hebrew yodea -LRB- `` one who knows '' -RRB-.
Yoda 's character is believed by some to have been inspired by the title character in the 1975 Russian-Japanese film Dersu Uzala directed by Akira Kurosawa.
HEADING History
Yoda, standing only 2 ' 2 '' -LRB- 0.66 m -RRB- tall, is one of the senior members of the Jedi Council and arguably the wisest and most powerful Jedi Master in the Star Wars universe, even toward his demise, though the toll of his great age is noticeable.
Over his lifetime, Yoda trains several notable Jedi, including Count Dooku, Mace Windu, Obi-Wan Kenobi -LRB- partially, before Qui-Gon Jinn took over with Obi-Wan 's training -RRB-, Ki-Adi-Mundi and Luke Skywalker.
George Lucas has intentionally kept the name of Yoda 's race a secret.
-LRB- Yoda, Yaddle, and Vandar Tokare are sometimes erroneously referred to as Whills, despite Lucas ' insistence that they are not -RRB-.
In fact, very little is reported of Yoda 's life before the events of '.
It is speculated from the Expanded Universe that he achieved the status of Jedi Knight at the age of 50 and the rank of Jedi Master at 100.
Following his training, Yoda is said to have spent 100 years in self-imposed solitude, attempting to attain a higher level of understanding of The Force.
He was one of the Jedi Masters who ran the mobile academy aboard the starship Chu'unthor about 200 years before ', leaving the ship 's data tapes in the care of one of the natives when the vessel crashes on Dathomir.
In 32 BBY -LRB- ' -RRB-, Qui-Gon Jinn brings a young Anakin Skywalker to the Jedi Council, requesting to train him once Obi-Wan Kenobi has completed the trials necessary to become a Jedi Knight -LRB- Jedi can only have one apprentice at a time -RRB-.
Yoda, as the teacher of many of those on the Council, and its most venerable and respected member, plays a key role in that body 's initial decision to deny the request.
Yoda believes that the boy is clearly affected by his years as a slave and that he still clings too tightly to the memory of his mother to be trained safely.
His future, Yoda thinks, is clouded.
After Qui-Gon Jinn 's death at the hands of Darth Maul, however, the Council rescinds its previous decision, though the reasons for this are unclear.
Personally, Yoda somewhat disagrees with the decision.
One possible explanation for this retraction is that Yoda trusts Kenobi more than his notoriously unorthodox teacher.
Another reason suggested is that, with Anakin showing such strength in the Force by destroying the droid control ship, the Council feels that it would be a shame and a waste -LRB- perhaps also a danger -RRB- to not train someone so strong in the Force.
Also, they are probably trying to do the right thing in honoring Qui-Gon 's dying request that Obi-Wan train the boy.
In 22 BBY -LRB- ' -RRB-, Yoda is a key Republic general at the Battle of Geonosis, when the clone trooper Army of the Republic is first deployed.
He leads the group which rescues the surrounded Jedi in the execution arena.
At the climax of the Battle of Geonosis, Yoda duels with Count Dooku and saves Kenobi and his Padawan, Skywalker.
Though seemingly frail, the ancient Yoda demonstrates a legendary mastery of lightsaber combat -LRB- Form IV lightsaber combat, known for using the Force to achieve extreme acrobatics - see the seven forms of lightsaber combat -RRB-.
HEADING Powers and abilities
Yoda has achieved mastery of all forms of lightsaber combat, though Form IV -LRB- Ataru -RRB- is his preferred choice, since it enables him to overcome the limitations of his height and reach.
He is an exceptional swordsman, displaying amazing speed and dexterity, leaping through the air and twirling as he batters at an opponent 's defenses.
Yoda is a great contributor to the highest level of Jedi strategy, and is also a worldly diplomat comparable to Windu.
Master Yoda can dissipate and deflect Force Lightning, telekinetically lift enormous objects, including an X-wing starfighter, and use Force Push to an untold degree.
He has a talent for sensing the future that is on par with Darth Sidious and is completely incorruptible by the dark side -LRB- particularly in the Clone Wars novel Dark Rendezvous when Yoda turns to the dark side for a short while to see why Dooku went there in the first place.
Also, Dooku claimed that Sidious would have been annihilated if `` Dark Yoda '' fought him -RRB-.
Yoda is even able to use Battle Meditation to win battles by lifting the morale of thousands of companions while simultaneously dampering the spirits of thousands of his opponents.
He can purge Dark Side manifestations through the use of Force Light and feel the deaths of individual people and identify them.
These skills, in particular, show a far more profound knowledge of the Force than most Jedi Masters or Sith Lords possess.
HEADING Personality and traits
To his students, the elfin Yoda can appear as either very strict or like a grandfather, testing them to mental and physical extremes one moment and showing warmth the next.
-LRB- In the beginning of their training, students may not see eye-to-eye with him, but eventually come to see the significance of his teachings. -RRB-
Among his colleagues on the Jedi Council, he is known to have a penchant for mischief and practical jokes.
To all of them, the humble Yoda, who offers enlightened leadership, epitomizes the ideals of the Jedi Order ; the grandmaster of that August body is widely known as a sage instructor.
Yoda speaks `` Galactic Basic '' in a distinctive manner by placing verbs -LRB- and more frequently, auxiliary verbs -RRB- after the object and subject.
In linguistic typology this is the `` Object Subject Verb '' format.
A typical example of Yoda 's speech pattern is from Return of the Jedi : `` When 900 years old you reach, look as good you will not. ''
This speech pattern has been the source of much parody.
For Italian fans of the Star Wars series, especially children, Yoda is often referred as `` The Sardinian One '' or `` The One Who Speaks Sardinian ''.
This is due to the fact that once translated into Italian, Yoda 's manner of speaking is very close to the Sardinian accent that in Italy is considered humorous, even if slightly ridiculous.
When not actively using the Force, the elderly Yoda walks with a cane.
In the Expanded Universe, it is revealed that one of his canes is a gift from the Wookiees, and that his gimer stick cane contains nutrients that can sustain him were he to chew on it.
Another item unique to Master Yoda is a blissl, an instrument similar to a panflute, which he wears around his neck while on Dagobah.
When we first meet Yoda, he cooks up a stew of roots and leaves to share with Luke Skywalker.
Though he lives in a world teeming with animal life, his choice of food has led some to believe that he adheres to a vegetarian or vegan diet.
Some have suggested that this is due to the strong empathy he feels with all living beings through the Force.
Yoda is never shown eating what is easily recognizable as a meat product ; however, we only see Yoda for a relatively short period of time in the Star Wars films, and in that time, see him eat only twice.
This, coupled with the fact that there is no current mention of Yoda 's specific diet in any official works, means that the details of his diet are not yet described in the canonical sense.
HEADING Bringing the character to life
Yoda 's appearance was originally designed by British makeup artist Stuart Freeborn, who based Yoda 's face partly on his own and partly on Albert Einstein 's, as his eyes are supposedly inspired by the latter.
Yoda is voiced by Frank Oz.
In the original Star Wars trilogy, he is realized as a puppet -LRB- controlled by Oz -RRB-.
In ', he was redesigned to look younger.
He was computer-generated for two distant shots, but remained mostly a puppet.
Rendered with computer animation in Attack of the Clones and Revenge of the Sith, Yoda appeared in ways not previously possible, including his participation in elaborate fight scenes.
In Revenge of the Sith his face appears in several big close-ups, demanding highly detailed CGI work.
Despite the use of advanced technology, his performance was deliberately intended to match the puppet version, with some `` mistakes '' made, such as the occasional ear-jiggling.
HEADING See also
HEADING External links
Star Wars : Databank : Yoda
Yoda is an character from the Star Wars universe.
Yoda is a character from the Star Wars universe.
on Wookiepedia yoda is DEAD !
: -RRB- : -RRB- : -RRB- : -RRB- : -RRB- : -RRB- : -RRB-
This color is usually used by an inkjet printer.
Sometimes confused with pink or purple.
One might use this color to express love.
Although magenta and fuchisa are the same color, the chart below -LRB- the colors displayed on which are also shown in the magenta color chart above -RRB- shows those shades of magenta which are specifically named fuchsia.
Abu Dhabi -LRB- Arabic : &#1571; &#1576; &#1608; &#1592; &#1576; &#1610; &#700; Ab &#363; &#7826; aby -RRB- is one of the emirates that make up the United Arab Emirates.
It is is the largest of the seven and was also the largest of the former Trucial States.
Abu Dhabi is also a city of the same name within the Emirate that is the capital of the country, in north central UAE.
The city lies on a T-shaped island going into the Persian Gulf from the central western coast.
An estimated 1,000,000 lived there in 2000, with about an 80% expatriate population.
Al Ain is Abu Dhabi 's second largest urban area with a population of 348,000 -LRB- 2003 census estimate -RRB- and is located 150 kilometres inland.
The Rolling Stones are anEnglish rock band that formed in London, England in 1962.
The band members were : Mick Jagger -LRB- vocals -RRB-, Keith Richards -LRB- guitar -RRB-, Brian Jones -LRB- guitar -RRB-, Bill Wyman -LRB- bass -RRB-, and Charlie Watts -LRB- drums -RRB-.
The band were influenced by American blues and rock musicians like Howlin ' Wolf, Chuck Berry, Bo Diddley and Muddy Waters.
In the beginning they had their first hits with covers versions of songs of those artists.
Along with The Beatles, they helped to lead the British Invasion of the early to mid 1960s.
Their fame rose quickly in 1965 with the the song `` The Last Time. ''
The song '' -LRB- I Ca n't Get No -RRB- Satisfaction '' became a world-wide hit for the band.
In the 1967 they experimented with a psychedelic music style.
But in 1968 they went back to a harder rock style with songs like `` Sympathy for the Devil '' and `` Jumpin ' Jack Flash '' and `` Honky Tonk Women. ''
In 1969, Brian Jones was fired from the band due to his growing drug addictions.
A few weeks later Jones was found dead in his swimming pool.
A highly respected young blues guitarist named Mick Taylor was named as his replacement.
Taylor played on some of the band 's most successful songs of the late 1960s and early 1970s including the hits `` Brown Sugar '', `` Tumbling Dice '', and `` It 's Only Rock n ' Roll. ''
Taylor left the band in 1974.
Ronnie Wood was hired as Taylor 's replacement and he has been with the band ever since.
Long time bassist Bill Wyman retired from the band in 1992.
The band remained active as a consistently successful recording and touring act throughout the 1980s and 1990s and into the 2000s.
In total they have released 25 studio albums, 10 live albums and 92 singles.
In 1989 The Rolling Stones were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
And in 2004 they were ranked number 4 in Rolling Stone Magazine 's list of the `` 100 Greatest Artists of All Time. ''
It is considered as one of the most influential and greatest rock bands ever to form.
Black Sabbath is responsible for the formation of heavy metal with their creative music.
Iommi 's strong guitar playing and Ozzy Osbourne 's powerful way of sing made them not like other bands.
Black Sabbath was very popular because they had a style unlike any other bands of their time.
They had problems when their singer was forced out of the band because he was drunk too much.
When Ozzy Osbourne left Black Sabbath, Ronnie James Dio joined the band to sing.
In the 1990s, Ozzy Osbourne rejoined the band.
Ever since then, Black Sabbath has been playing rock shows in many places all over the world.
He began tuning his guitar lower to slacken his strings to make playing easier on his wounded fingers.
Their most successful single titled `` Paranoid came off the 1970 album of the same name.
The watt is the rate a source of energy uses or produces one joule during one second, so the same quantity may be referred to as a joule per second, with the symbol J\/s.
Suicide is when a person chooses to kill him or her self.
Windows 1.0 was one of the first operating environments that used pictures instead of text.
It was made by Microsoft.
Hewlett Packard -LRB- HP -RRB- is a computer technology company founded in 1939 by Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard.
They are best known for manufacturing computer peripherals such as inkjet printers, laser printers, all-in-one printers, scanners and digital cameras.
He is now thinking about what to do next.
The rumor that he will retire may be true, but was denied by Eminem, who said that he is just taking time out to see what he wants to do next.
He has a movie called `` 8 Mile '' that tells the story of his life.
The song `` Lose Yourself '', which was from the movie, won an Oscar award and was his biggest hit.
Eurovision Song Contest is a singing contest held in Europe which started in 1956.
Different singers representing countries in Europe compete every year.
HEADING Gay in LGBT
LGBT is an acronym that stands for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender.
Sometimes the LGBT community is also called the gay community.
But gay community could mean either men who prefer men as partners or the whole LGBT community.
Gay can be used in the plural -LRB- Gays -RRB- to mean the gay male community or even the whole LGBT community.
HEADING Headline text
Shaun Tucker.
sucks mens cocks
Gay traditionally means ` happy, ' but in English it also means homosexual.
This meaning is more common now.
The word gay refers to a person who is sexually interested in people of the same sex.
It can apply to both men and women, but a more common word for a gay woman is a lesbian.
Düsseldorf is a German city near Cologne.
It is the capital of North Rhine-Westphalia, a state of Germany.
Düsseldorf was foundet in the early middle age a became a city in 1288.
It has 573,000 inhabitants, an university and an international airport.
Some intewrnational companies take place in Düsseldorf, just like Henkel -LRB- Persil, etc. -RRB-
In Europa it is the city with most Japanese companies and people.
Düsseldorf has about 573,000 inhabitants in an agglomeration of about 1.3 millon people.
The city has 1 international airport, an university and is seat for a lot of international companies.
HEADING History
In the 7th or 8th century there was a fishing or farming settlement at the place where the little river Düssel -LRB- which gave the name to the city -RRB- flows into the Rhine.
First written mentioned part of the city is Kaiserswerth in 1135, Kaiserswert became a part of Düsseldof in 1927.
In 1186 the Counts of Berg got Düsseldorf, who made it to their residence in 1280.
On 14th of August 1288 there was a great battle between the Archebishop of Cologne and the Duke of Limburg against the Duke of Brabant and the Count of Berg.
The Duke of Brabant won and the Archebishop of Cologne became prisoner of the Count of Berg.
So he could n't do anything against Düsseldorf getting the status as a city.
So Düsseldorf became a city with full City Rights in 1288.
The Counts of Berg became more and more powerful and Düsseldorf became capitol of the Duchy of Berg-Mark-Kleve-J ülich in 1380.
in 1680 the Dukes of Berg-Kleve-Mark-J ülich died out and after some struggles the Earls of Palatine -LRB- they were Prince-Electors -RRB- became the new rulers of Düsseldorf.
Most important duke of this line was Johann Wilhelm II.
-LRB- 1690-1716 -RRB-, called Jan Wellem.
After Jan Wellem the Dukes moved to their new seat in Heidelberg, because they got even the Duchy of Bavaria.
In the Napoleonic Wars the Frensh won the duchy and Düsseldorf.
Napoleon gave the Duchy of Berg-J ülich to one of his generals, who married one of his nices.
This general became later King of Westfalia.
in the Industrial Revolution in the 19th century Düsseldorf growed a lot and got more than 100,000 inhabitants in 1882, doubled in 1892.
Düsseldorf was nearly complete destroied in the World War II.
1946 Düsseldorf became captitol of North Rhine Westfalia.
In his three years at Cambridge he came into a large fortune left by his father, Edward Crowley.
He was an influential member in some occult organizations, such as the Golden Dawn, the A A, and Ordo Templi Orientis -LRB- O.T.O. -RRB-, Crowley, Aleister.
and is better known today for his occult books and papers.
Crowley also started a mystical philosophy known as Thelema, the Abbey of Thelema, and revived the term magick.
In 1895, he went to Trinity College, Cambridge after going to Malvern College and Tonbridge School.
In his three years at Cambridge, his father passed away and left him a large sum of money.
Other popular works include `` The Tell-Tale Heart '' and `` The Cask of Amontillado ''.
HEADING Early life
He disobeyed orders, stopped studying, and once obeyed orders too literally -LRB- seeing a bulletin that said that only one kind of belt should be worn, he wore the belt only, no clothes ! -RRB-
In 1815, the Allans went on a business trip to Fuckland for five years, where Poe enrolled -LRB- was accepted -RRB- in an English Private school.
He was nicknamed El Diez, Pelusa, El Diego and El pibe de oro, He won the World Cup in Mexico in the year of 1986.
Wonder became one of the most successful and well-known artists on the Motown label.
He has recorded 23 albums and many hit singles, and written and produced songs for many of his labelmates and other artists as well.
Wonder plays the drums, guitar, synthesizers, congas, and most famously the piano, harjmonica and the keyboard.
Wonder plays the drums, guitar, synthesizers, congas, and most famously the piano, harmonica and the keyboard.
Vanilla Ninja is a music group made up of four girls named Lenna Kuurmaa, Katrin Siska, Piret Järvis and Triinu Kivilaan.
Kivilaan replaced another girl named Maarja Kivi in the year 2003.
The band has had some popular songs in Europe and was in the Eurovision Song Contest 2005.
HEADING External Links
Haile Selassie I of Ethiopia -LRB- July 23 1892-August 27, 1975 -RRB- was the former Emperor of Ethiopia but is now better known as the religious symbol for God incarnate -LRB- in the flesh -RRB- amongst members of the Rastafari movement.
-LRB- Another name of his was Ras Tafari, which explains the name.
Selassie was made into a local governor in 1907, and he played a part in deposing Emperor Lij Iyasu and replacing him with Empress Zauditu on September 27, 1916.
From this time he controlled Ethiopia.
He was made negus -LRB- emperor -RRB- in 1928, and was crowned `` Haile Selassie, King of Kings and Lord of Lords, Conquering Lion of the Tribe of Judah, with the root of David '' on November 2, 1930.
His coronation was given widespread publicity throughout the world, and especially through two consecutive TIME Magazine articles.
This publicity created interest even on the far-away island of Jamaica, where a belief in his divinity -LRB- Godliness -RRB- soon arose because of his titles, and because they saw him as a symbol of black liberation.
In 1936 he ran from Ethiopia after the invasion by Italy.
He gave a speech at the League of Nations, asking them to stop the Italians, but they failed to act.
In 1966 he visited Jamaica, where he was loved by the Rastafarian community of Jamaica.
On September 12, 1974 he was overthrown by a Marxist coup, and, they said, died of natural causes the following August.
However, there is some disagreement around why he died, and many Rastafarians claim he is still alive.
Ethiopia is a country in the Horn of Africa.
It has one of the most well known histories as a country in Africa and the world.
Unlike other African countries, Ethiopia stayed together during the Scramble for Africa, except for 5 years when it was ruled by Italians.
HEADING History
This was a good development, for when the Empire was attacked by Somali General and Imam, Ahmad ibn Ibrihim al-Ghazi -LRB- called `` Grany '', or `` the Left-handed '' -RRB-, Portugal responded to Lebna Dengel 's need for help with an army of 400 men, who helped his son Gelawdewos beat Ahmad and remake his rule.
Ethiopian isolationism ended following a British mission that made friendship between the two nations ; however, it was not until the reign of Tewodros II that Ethiopia began to take part in world matters once again.
REDIRECT crayons
More than 500,000 people live there.
The Saga of Norwegian Kings -LRB- written by Snorre Sturlason -RRB- tells that king Harald III Sigurdsson founded Oslo around 1048.
Recent archaeological research has found Christian graves from before 1000.
Oslo was destroyed in fire in 1624, and was rebuild nearer to Akershus Fortress by the command of king Christian IV of Norway.
The king gave the new city the name Christiania, which was later also written as Kristiania.
In 1925 the name of the city was changed back to Oslo.
Cool Runnings could mean :
Sir Mix-a-Lot -LRB- born Anthony Ray on August 12, 1963 -RRB- is an American rapper and producer.
His style of music is called `` hip-hop. ''
He is from Seattle, and he is most famous for his hit song `` Baby Got Back. ''
That song has catchy phrases and cheap humor, and it talks about liking big butts.
This made it popular in the United States during the 1990s.
The song helped bigger-boned women, and those who like the look of that kind of woman, feel more comfortable with themselves.
`` Calvin and Hobbes '' is a comic strip by Bill Watterson about a boy named Calvin and his imaginary friend, a talking tiger named Hobbes.
Together Calvin and Hobbes run into all sorts of trouble and adventures.
Susie Derkins, the only character in the with both first and last names, is a fellow classmate of Calvin who lives in his neighborhood.
-LRB- In a game of `` house '' she usually casts herself as the traditional working wife while Calvin is the lousy and useless husband or some version similar o that. -RRB-
-LRB- Susie is shown on occasion with a stuffed rabbit known as `` Mr. Bun, '' and Calvin always has Hobbes. -RRB-
She is the only babysitter able to put up with Calvin 's bad behavior, which she uses to demand raises and advances from Calvin 's desperate parents.
She is also, according to Watterson, the only person Calvin truly fears -- certainly she is his equal in sneakiness, and does n't pause to play as dirty as he does.
Rosalyn was known to have a habit of sending him to bed at 6:30 which he goes against and only makes more trouble.
These calls are often cut short by Calvin.
Originally she was created as a nameless, one-shot character with no plans to appear again ; however, Watterson decided he wanted to keep her unique ability to scare Calvin, which and ultimately, led to many more appearances.
Calvin 's mother and father are for the most part regular Middle American middle-class parents ; like many other characters in the strip, their relatively realistic and sensible manners act as mainly as a foil for Calvin 's childish and selfish behavior.
Moe is the traditional bully character in Calvin & Hobbes, `` a six-year-old who shaves '' who is always pushing Calvin against walls, forcing to give him to give away his lunch money, and calling him `` Twinky. ''
Moe is the only regular character who speaks in an unusual font : his -LRB- frequently monosyllabic -RRB- dialogue is shown in rough, lower-case letters.
Miss Wormwood is Calvin 's bored and depressed teacher, named after the apprentice devil in C.S. Lewis 's The Screwtape Letters.
She continuously wears polka-dotted dresses, and serves like others as a foil to Calvin 's rude behavior.
This is like comparing Calvin 's imagininary worlds to the real world in the strip, and it guides him through fun and adventure.
In classic comic tradition of sidekicks, Hobbes is kind of like Calvin 's ` good side ' because he is more mature and makes smarter descisions than Calvin does.
When Calvin does something like throw a snowball at a girl, Hobbes will say `` You think she 's cute, right ? ''
This kind of teaches Calvin a lesson and it makes the comic seem better.
However, from Calvin 's point of view, Hobbes is as alive and real as anyone in the strip.
He is named after 17th century philosopher Thomas Hobbes, who had what Watterson said `` a dim view of human nature. ''
Hobbes is much more alert and aware of the bad things that can happen than Calvin is aware, but he does n't stop Calvin 's troublemaking.
All that he really does is warn him, and anyways, Calvin will be the one to get in trouble for it, not Hobbes.
Hobbes also has the habit of sneaking up and then jumping on Calvin, which Calvin hates.
This may seem really wierd, and Watterson explains it like this :
Although the first strips clearly show Calvin capturing Hobbes by means of a trap -LRB- with tuna fish as the bait -RRB-, a later comic -LRB- 1 August 1989 -RRB- seems to imply that Hobbes is, in fact, older than Calvin, and has been around with him his whole life.
Watterson decided that it was not important to explain how Calvin and Hobbes had first met.
The Maine economy relies heavily on fishing in some areas.
Lobster trapping is a traditionally part of the economy.
Lobster trapping is a traditional part of the economy.
Southern Maine is the part of the state that has the most people.
Maine 's `` Moosehead Lake '' is the biggest lake that is completely in New England -LRB- Lake Champlain is located between Vermont and New York, which is not considered part of New England -RRB-.
People in Maine produce agricultural goods like poultry, eggs, dairy products, cattle, wild blueberries -LRB- the state makes 25% of all blueberries in North America, making it the largest blueberry maker in the world -RRB-, apples, maple syrup and maple sugar.
Dominique Marie François René Galouzeau de Villepin -LRB- born November 14, 1953 -RRB-, simply known as Dominique de Villepin, was appointed Premier -LRB- or Prime Minister -RRB- of France on May 31, 2005.
He was made Premier by Jacques Chirac after the French President removed Jean-Pierre Raffarin from the premiership.
Raffarin failed to gain the support of the French people for the European Constitution.
Villepin stepped down as Prime Minister on May 17, 2007.
Dominique de Villepin said that his government 's most important task would be job creation.
He knew that the French people were concerned about the condition of the French economy.
This was one of the reasons they had voted against the European Constitution in the referendum on May 29, 2005,
His father, Cronus swallowed every child he had with Rhea.
Firefox has been downloaded over 200,000,000 times.
i.e. Tabs, Extensions
The name for Firefox 3.0 while it was being made was Gran Paradiso.
In 2006, the development team asked people who use Firefox to submit feature requests that they wanted to be in Firefox 3.
NetApplications notes that the use of Firefox 3 has been going up very fast to a usage share of 2.23% in May 2008.
The official date for the launch of Firefox 3 was June 17, 2008, named `` Download Day 2008. ''
Firefox was aiming to set the record for most software downloads in 24 hours.
Accent could mean any of the following :
The way that a group of people say words ; how they pronounce words and sentences
The correct way to say parts of a word, more or less loudly -LRB- often called `` stress '' -RRB-
A symbol added to letters to see how to say those letters in words -LRB- e.g. ö, ñ, or é, as used in the word née -RRB- -LRB- often called `` diacritics '' -RRB-.
The Roman Catholic Church is wrong.
The largest group of Christians, with over a whole lotta niggas rollin ' up to chruch and shit, what !
It is the only church to claim that it continues the original Christian group, started by Bitch-God of the new testament, not to be confused with Cool-God of the old testament.
Cool-God hangs out on the rough side of scripture where morals and virtues do n't venture for fear of getting curb stomped by self-flaggelation or the s
panish inquisition.
Typically, people who call themselves ` Catholic ' mean that they follow the teachings of Cathol and are a member of the Roman Catholic Church.
The Roman Catholic Church is led by the pope, who lives in the Vatican City, with his lover, ex-Pope John Paul II A.K.A Johnny Steps -LRB- or The half Beatles -RRB-.
Right now the pope is a German man named Joseph A.K.A Benedict XVI or ` Ol' Benny X ' for short, he is a tall man, who loves children, and cats, he does n't afraid of anything -LRB- especially jews, what ! -RRB-
The next pope will probably be called George Ringo, as we already had a John Paul, what !
She finished high school in 1965, and enrolled at Wellesley College in Massachusetts.
Another major event waz when eminem came out with the song Crack a Bottle itz a really good song and lil waynes song lolipop came out
and tosh.0 's newest episode and thatz it holmes
The state has an area of 106,195 mi -LRB- 275,608 km -RRB-, it is bigger than Burkina Faso but smaller than Ecuador.
The PS2 is very successful and games are still made for it.
The PlayStation 2 is the world 's best-selling console.
It has sold around 140 million units since its launch in October 2000, and is fully compatible with PlayStation games.
When the console was first released in North America, demand exceeded supply and the console sold out at almost all stores.
Many people sold the console on eBay for higher prices, and it was not until early 2006 that the Xbox 360 became more available in stores again.
Wroc aw is the biggest city in Lower Silesia -LRB- Dolny l sk -RRB- in the southwest part of Poland.
The Oder River goes through the city.
The German name of the city is Breslau, and the Czech name is Vratislav.
Wroc aw is over 1000 years old.
Its population in 2004 was 638,000.
There are 10 universities in the city.
There are also 4 other small rivers which connect with the Oder River in the territory of city : Bystrzyca, O awa, l za and Widawa.
Before World War II there were 303 bridges in the city ; now there are about 220.
In Latin language it is called `` Vratislavia ''
HEADING History
It has been called by its Polish name Wroc aw ever since.
HEADING Modern Wroc aw
It is famous for its beautiful historical town square -LRB- Polish rynek -RRB- and cathedral -LRB- large church -RRB-.
In 1997 the Oder River flooded, causing a lot of damage.
About 70% of the buildings were damaged.
Many of them were rebuilt.
HEADING Nobel Prize winners from Wroc aw
10 people from Wroc aw have won the Nobel Prize.
They are :
Theodor Mommsen (1902)
Philipp Lenard (1905)
Eduard Buchner (1907)
Paul Ehrlich (1908)
Gerhart Hauptmann (1912)
Fritz Haber (1918)
Friedrich Bergius (1931)
Otto Stern (1943)
Max Born (1954)
Reinhard Selten (1994)
They are among the simplest single-celled organisms on Earth.
They have been living for billions of years.
In the U.S. and Canada it was rated mature by the ESRB, for its violence.
The news often has international stories.
During the American Civil War, many additions were made, including draw poker, stud poker -LRB- the five-card variant -RRB-, and the straight.
Poker 's popularity has experienced an unprecedented spike in recent years, largely due to the introduction of online poker and the invention of the hole-card camera which finally turned the game into a spectator sport.
The best Poker Chips calculator and best explanations on the Poker
Online Poker Rooms - A short overview.
It 's not italic for me, but I 'm using cologne blue.
More to the point : I would prefer a tagline like
From Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia -LRB- without. -RRB-
This should be clear enough to avoid confusion with enWP, but also short enough not to overwhelm the reader.
After all, this is Simple English Wikipedia.
Actually the word encyclopedia is n't simple English, but I can not think of a replacement right now.
Also, the period is n't there on either English or German WP, and I think there is no reason not to be consistent with the two largest WPs.
-- ' 18:53, 11 March 2007 -LRB- UTC -RRB-
It has been running since 1985 and there have been over 3200 episodes.
He was born at Valladolid, and was the only son of Holy Roman Emperor Charles V and his wife to live until he was an adult.
He left Spain in 1547 and moved to the Netherlands, where his father 's family was from.
Mary I -LRB- February 18, 1516 -- November 17, 1558 -RRB-, also known as Mary Tudor, was the queen of England.
Mary Tudor, Catholic Encyclopedia, accessed February 2009
Although she was not the heir Henry VIII was looking for, she was loved by her parents.
When she was about eleven, Henry decided to divorce Mary 's mother, Catherine of Aragon so he could to marry Anne Boleyn.
After Anne Boleyn had a daughter, Mary had to become one of her servants.
After Anne Boleyn was killed by the King, Mary 's half-sister suffered the same fate as Mary.
She had acknowledging her parents ' marriage as invalid and herself an illegitimate daughter.
The rest of Mary 's life with Henry VIII gave her a quick succession of stepmothers.
When she was about eleven, Henry decided to divorce Mary 's mother, Catherine of Aragon so he could marry Anne Boleyn.
Henry 's had decided that the young prince was to succeed him.
If he had no heirs then his older half-sister, Mary, was to be Queen.
If Mary did n't produce a child, then the Mary 's half-sister, Elizabeth, was be Queen.
Edward succeeded to the throne as King of England and Ireland.
Edward began to show signs of a coughing disease.
, the courtiers begun to dread the day when the Catholic Princess Mary would become Queen.
Edward VI of England -LRB- October 12, 1537 -- July 6, 1553 -RRB-, the son of Henry VIII of England and Jane Seymour.
He was King of England and King of Ireland from January 28, 1547 until his death.
His mother -LRB- Jane Seymour -RRB- died 12 days after his birth.
He became king at the age of 9 when his father, Henry VIII, died.
He died when he was only 15 years old.
His successor was his cousin Lady Jane Grey.
In the fictional story The Prince and the Pauper by Mark Twain, Edward VI is one of the main characters -LRB- the ` prince ' -RRB-.
The weather and temperatures in Colorado are quite different to most of the United States.
In most other states, the part in the south is warmer than the part in the north, southern Colorado is not really warmer than northern Colorado.
There is a change in climate in Colorado between the Rocky Mountains on the west and the plains on the east with the foothills.
This usually means work on airplanes, helicopters and spacecraft.
This usually means working with airplanes, helicopters and spacecrafts.
Aerospace jobs include astronauts, pilots, and other things.
By `` Upper Norrland '' people usually mean Norrbotten and Västerbotten counties.
Historically parts of northern Finland have also been parts of Norrland.
Norrland is famous for its landscape, and for phenomena such as the Midnight sun, Polar night and Northern lights.
Norrland is famous for its landscape, and for phenomena such as the Midnight sun, Polar night and Aurora also called the Northern lights.
A vacuum is a place in which there is no matter.
Outer space is not a true vacuum because there are a very small number of particles in outer space.
Her father was the second son of the duke of Norfolk.
Catherine 's family was poor so they sent Catherine to live with her step-grandmother, Agnes Tilney.
Catherine was taught music by Henry Manox when she was fifteen years old.
He possibly her.
She this.
Catherine was taught music by Henry Manox when she was 15 years old.
Catherine later that, being `` but a young girl '', she had let him `` handle and touch the secret parts of my body ''.
Catherine then fell in love with a gentleman at her grandmother 's court.
She slept with him, and they became lovers.
They called each other `` husband '' and `` wife ''.
Catherine became a lady-in-waiting to Queen Anne of Cleves in 1539 or 1540, when she was about 18 years old.
Anne of Cleves was the fourth wife of Henry VIII.
The king did not like Anne, and said she was not as pretty as he had hoped for.
He soon fell in love with Catherine.
In July 1540, after Henry had Anne of Cleves, Henry and Catherine got married at Oatlands Palace in Surrey.
Henry VIII loved his young bride and gave her lots of rich presents.
He called her his ` rose without a ' and the ` very jewel of womanhood '.
Her motto was `` Non autre volonté que la sienne '' or `` No other wish but his ''.
However, Catherine was not happy in her marriage.
Her husband was very fat -LRB- he was about 300 pounds at the time -RRB-, much older than her, and had a on his legs.
She began falling in love with a man named Thomas Culpepper.
Henry was very upset.
He cried.
However, he grew angrier and angrier and later said he would kill Catherine himself with his sword.
At last, he made up his mind that Catherine was to be executed, just like her cousin, Anne Boleyn.
HEADING Death
She was so fearful she grew filled with hysteria, crying as if she was a madwoman.
She asked to see the executioner 's block so she might know how to put her head on it.
She practiced laying her head on the block all night long before her death.
There is a popular story that before Catherine died, she said, `` I die a Queen, but I would rather have died the wife of Culpepper. ''
This is not true.
The executioner chopped her head off with one blow.
She was buried in St. Peter Ad Vincula, the parish church of the Tower of London.
Louis 's first wife was Jeanne of France, who was the daughter of Louis XI of France.
At the time, Louis was not expected to become King of France.
The King, Charles VIII, was a young man and could still have had children, but Charles had an accident and died suddenly.
Charles was Jeanne 's brother.
Louis was Charles 's cousin and next in line to the throne.
When he became king, he had to end his marriage to Jeanne, partly because she was disabled and could not have children.
Anne had been married to King Charles VIII until his death, but all of their children had died.
As a result of her marriage to Charles, the dukedom of Brittany had become part of the kingdom of France.
Louis wanted to keep Brittany, but in order to do so he had to marry Anne.
After her marriage to Louis, Anne had two daughters, who were called Claude and Renee.
In France, women were not allowed to rule the country, so Louis still wanted a son to become king after him.
She was many years younger than him.
Louis lived for only three months after their marriage.
Because Louis had no sons, the throne went to Francis, the husband of his daughter Claude.
Humans came to Malta around this time, according to some archaeologists.
I 'll Keep It Simple : u suck
He is buried in the Saint Denis Basilica, next to King Charles IX of France.
Alexandria is a large city in Egypt.
It is the largest coastal city of Egypt.
It is also the second largest city of Egypt.
It is on the coast, next to the Mediterranean sea.
Alexandria is located in the north of Egypt, only 225 km from Cairo.
Alexandria is named after its founder.
Alexander the Great founded Alexandria in 331 BC.
= = Simple past tense = =
Freeview is free television service in the UK, sent to people 's home using a digital signal.
Some TVs can receive Freeview automatically, but most people have to buy a special box to connect to their old TV.
It includes more channels than the normal -LRB- aka analog -RRB- television provides.
Over 30 television channels are on it at the moment -LRB- plus many radio stations -RRB-.
In December 2007 over 8 million people had Freeview in their homes.
Some TVs can receive Freeview automatically, but most people have to buy a special box to connect to their TV.
In the United States of America, a cab is another word for taxi.
You can as well use them together as in this sentence : `` Hey Joe, you better take a taxi cab back home, you drank alcohol, thus you can not drive yourself. ''
The Lord of the Rings is a book written by J. R. R. Tolkien, first published in 1954.
It is a fictional -LRB- not real -RRB- story that takes place in a world called Middle-earth.
It is published in three different parts named The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of the King.
The Lord of the Rings has also been made into three films directed by Peter Jackson.
The story began as a sequel to Tolkien 's earlier fantasy book, The Hobbit, and quickly became a much larger story.
Tolkien wrote the story between 1937 and 1949.
It was originally published as six books in the years 1954 and 1955.
Since then, The Lord of the Rings has been translated into 38 languages.
It is one of the most popular stories in 20th-century literature and has been an important book for the fantasy genre.
The action in The Lord of the Rings takes place in a world named Middle-earth and is written like the history of the earth.
There are humans in the story but there are also a lot of other types of peoples.
These include Hobbits, Elves, Dwarves, Wizards, and Orcs.
HEADING Backstory
The backstory -LRB- the history of what happened before the current story -RRB- begins thousands of years before the action in the book.
Many years ago, the Lord of the Rings came to power.
His name was Dark Lord Sauron and he was a creature with supernatural powers.
At the end of the First Age of Middle-earth, Sauron was defeated by an alliance of Elves and Men, but he survived.
During the Second Age, Sauron learned how to forge -LRB- create -RRB- magical rings which give power to their wearers.
The Elves got three rings, the Dwarves got seven, and the Men got nine.
Sauron secretly forged a Great Ring of his own, the One Ring.
He planned to control the wearers of the other Rings with this One Ring.
This plan failed when the Elves became aware of it and took off their rings.
Sauron then started a war.
In one battle, an Elf king captured Sauron 's ring.
This caused Sauron to lose the second battle against Elves and Men.
The first book takes place in the Third Age and begins in the Shire, the place where Hobbits live.
Bilbo Baggins, the main character from The Hobbit, has had the One Ring for many years.
He is now giving it to his cousin Frodo Baggins.
HEADING Adaptations
The Lord of the Rings has been many times.
It has been made into an animated and three live-action films, radio plays, musicals, etc.
The Lord of the Rings are a series of books written by J. R. R. Tolkien.
Written by J. R. R. Tolkien.
Hinckley was tried, but was found not guilty, due to his insanity, he said the reason he shot the President was to get the attention of actress Jodie Foster.
He was known mostly for his caricatures -LRB- funny drawings -RRB- of entertainers and famous people.
Jamaica is also know for its dances and it performers.
Pink is the color for embarrassment, because of the pink blushing cheeks.
This color reminds most people of a girl because pink is the most popular favorite color to girls.
Pink can be a very cute color, like you see cute girls in pink dress.
Men and boys can wear pink too - when people see boys or men in pink clothes, most people in the UK will say `` That 's silly ! ''
A polygon is a closed shape that has more than one side.
The smallest possible -LRB- euclidic -RRB- polygon is the triangle.
If the edges -LRB- lines of the polygon -RRB- do not intersect -LRB- cross each other -RRB-, it is called simple, otherwise it is complex.
The president of the country is Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Barley is a type of plant.
Its seeds are a cereal grain.
For example, if you read a book about philosophy that had the word `` epistemology '' -LRB- it means `` what is knowledge '' -RRB-, there might be a glossary at the back of the book with the definition of this word.
Pauline epistles, the 13 or 14 letters believed to be written by Saint Paul the Apostle
First Timothy -LRB- Likely -RRB-
Second Timothy -LRB- Likely -RRB-
Titus -LRB- Likely -RRB-
Palestine is a region in the Middle East, but is not a country as it does not have its own land.
It is believed that he wrote thirteen books of the Bible, all of which are letters to churches and Christians, incouraging them, helping them to understand Christian teaching and helping them to live Christian lives.
Christianity.
Pauls name was originally Saul.
He grew up learning both the Jewish law and the Greek ways of discussing things.
When the Christian movement began, after the death of Jesus, he was strongly against it.
He worked for the Roman -RRB- Government and led the, -LRB- the arrests and killing -RRB- of many Christians in Israel and the nearby area.
While he was on the road to Damascus in search of Christians there, he had a vision.
In the vision Jesus Christ spoke to him, telling Saul that his persection of Christians was a persecution of Jesus himself, and that it did not please God.
Saul was blinded by the vision.
A short time later he met Ananias of Damascus, a disciple of Jesus, and his sight came back to him
Saul was baptised as a Christian.
He spent the next three years studying the Jewish scriptures again to find explanations for the Christian tecahings.
His viewpoint completely changed by his experiences.
He changed his name to Paul and he dedicated his life to serving Jesus Christ.
He used his earlier education to explain his new faith to other people, and discuss things with people who had other beliefs.
The letters contain many important parts of Christian teaching.
Paul was put to death by orders of the emperor Nero in Rome, in 67 AD.
He had the rights of a Roman citizen, which meant that he could be put to death by having his head cut off with a sword, rather than by crucifixion.
They are also used for carrying things or pulling wagons, or to help plow fields in agriculture.
Today, horses are mostly used for entertainment and sports, but they also are still used for work and transportation in some places.
A male horse is a stallion, and a female horse is a mare.
A young female horse is a filly, and a young male horse is a colt.
A castrated horse is a gelding.
Fifty million years ago, there were no horses.
Eohippus was a short animal.
It was the size of a cat.
In Latin the name Eohippus means dawn horse.
Some scientists believe that Eohippus changed over millions of years into new animals.
One of the new animals was the horse.
Eohippus did not have hooves.
It had four toes on each front foot.
It had three toes on each back foot.
http://www.enchantedlearning.com/subjects/mammals/horse/Eohippuscoloring.shtml
The old Latin word for horse is equushttp : \/ \/ www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/equine
HEADING Other uses of horses
Horsehide is a tough leather made from the skin of horses.
Horsehair is used to make a stiff fabric.
Horsehair can also be used as a stuffing for furniture.
Horsehair can be mixed with plaster to make it strong.
Horse bones can be used to make gelatin for food.
The bones can also be used to make glue.
Animal glue is still preferred by some wood workers.
http://www.specialchem4adhesives.com/home/editorial.aspx?id=1945
Horses are used all over the world to carry people and pull carts.
They are used by police in big cities.
Police horses help police watch and protect people in crowds.
http://www.policensw.com/info/gen/u7.html
These are some well-known horse breeds :
Holstein
Lipizzaner
Prayer is done by those who trust the power of word and thought.
Many religions recognize the creation of the Universe by God from words.
During crucifixion -LRB- which is what it is called when people are killed on a cross -RRB- people have both hands and both feet nailed to the cross.
Argolis is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Achaea is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Arcadia is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Laconia is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Pella is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Kardhitsa is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Kozani is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Magnesia is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Chalcidice is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Euboea is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Arta is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Trikala is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Samos is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Evritania is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Cyclades is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Serres is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
The capital of Serres is also called Serres.
Its capital city is also called Serres.
Kilkis is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Chania is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Xanthi is one of 51 prefectures of Greece.
Ronald William Howard -LRB- born March 1, 1954 -RRB- is an American actor and director.
He started acting as a young child, and was best known for his roles on TV as Opie Taylor on The Andy Griffith Show and Richie Cunningham on Happy Days and in movies like The Music Man (1962) and American Graffiti (1973).
He later quit acting and became a director.
Some of the films he directed are : Splash (1984), Cocoon (1985), Willow (1988), Apollo 13 (1995), How the Grinch Stole Christmas (2000), A Beautiful Mind (2001), and the Cinderella Man (2005).
His brother Clint Howard and daughter Bryce Dallas Howard are also actors.
Recently, he returned to TV and made the TV show Arrested Development.
Some of the films he directed are : Splash (1984), Cocoon (1985), Willow (1988), Apollo 13 (1995), How the Grinch Stole Christmas (2000), A Beautiful Mind (2001), and Cinderella Man (2005).
Pearl jumping Harbor is a naval base in the U.S. state of Hawaii, on the island of Oahu.
The Netherlands are famous for its canals and dikes.
Cannabis can be smoked, eaten, or ingested in a number of other ways.
When cannabis -LRB- marijuana -RRB- is used, the user gets ` high '.
These include not being able to remember things as easily, making your perception -LRB- how you see and feel -RRB- different, and making it harder to think and solve problems.
This is done by rolling it in paper like a cigarette, or using a pipe or a water bong and also making hashish.
Hashish is processed marijuana.
There are more than 200 slang terms for cannabis -LRB- pot, weed, grass, Mary Jane, gangster -RRB-, cannabis smoking, and cannabis intoxication -LRB- high, stoned -RRB-.
Marijuana is one of the least dangerous drugs that are commonly used.
It would require a user to smoke or ingest over three pounds in a time period of 15 minutes to be classified as potentially fatal.
Fewer deaths are reported from the use of marijuana then any other other intoxicant or drug in existence.
They are used as food for humans and animals, for example, chickens and horses.
We use them as food for humans and animals, for example, chickens and horses.
In Scotland a dish called Sowans was made by soaking the husks from oats in water for a week so that the fine, floury part of the meal remained as to be strained off, boiled and eaten -LRB- Gauldie 1981 -RRB-.
The more common cereal proteins, such as gluten and zein, are prolamines -LRB- prolamins -RRB-.
The minor protein of oat is a prolamine.
It is called avenin.
Kiribati used to be called the Gilbert Islands.
The political way of thinking of Communism states that the proletariat should have a revolution and take over the means of production.
It is trying to join the European Union, and was invited on 3 April 2008 to be a part of NATO.
Yo yo yo ya simple simplions.
yu no speak inglish proper.
raz yododo shnizzle ma dizzrazmatizznizzwizzle I speaka gooda ingleesha from Croatia Hrtvska come over you like our new feature the stimulator
u iz all sa speshial needz !
Sir Robert Peel -LRB- February 5 1788 -- July 2 1850 -RRB- was an important British politician.
He established many well-known laws in Britain including the police force and had a brief term as Prime Minister.
During this time, Peel 's popularity with other party members became lower because many of them thought he was too proud, and disliked the way he changed his mind over many important issues, often without telling them first.
TAYLOR RUN
One thing to remember is to use lots and lots of lubricant, and although you can not get pregnant through anal sex, sexually transmitted diseases can still be propagated without the usage of a condom.
For the women, many find anal sex very enjoyable as it offers a unique sensation that differs from regular sex.
One of the sexualy transmitted diseases that can be transmitted from having anal sex without using a condom is HIV\/AIDS.
Anal sex is frowned upon in many countries and religions, however many men and women find anal sex very enjoyable as it feels different regular sex.
Anal sex is frowned upon in many countries and religions, however many men and women find anal sex very enjoyable as it feels different than regular sex.
One of the sexually transmitted diseases that can be transmitted from having anal sex without using a condom is HIV\/AIDS.
This can be a finger, dildo, penis, drilling machine, or another object.
Harpsichords are earlier versions and lead to pianos.
Depression -LRB- illness -RRB- is a form of mental -LRB- thinking -RRB- illness
Depression -LRB- economy -RRB- is a state of the economy -LRB- money among people and businesses -RRB- where it is shrinking instead of growing
Phil -LRB- January 19, 1939 - -RRB- and Don -LRB- February 1, 1937 - -RRB- Everly are two brothers from Kentucky.
They started preforming in the 1950s and had a lot of famous songs in the 50s and 1960s.
They are considered very influencial in Rock and Roll.
Africa-Eurasia -LRB- also called Afro-Eurasia, Eurafrasia, Afrasia -RRB- is a supercontinent and the world 's biggest landmass.
It is split into two continents by the Suez Canal into the continents of Africa and Eurasia, the latter of which has been historically further subdivided into Europe and Asia.
Historians of the cultural materialism school may subdivide it into Eurasia-Northern Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa, based on different agricultural systems.
It spread all over Europe, the Middle East and parts of Asia.
The Black Death was a epidemic -LRB- a disease that goes over a large area -RRB- that killed millions of people in Europe during the Middle Ages.
Almost one out of every three people in Europe got the disease and died.
This means about 25 million people died from it, in Europe alone.
As of 2008, people think the diesease came from Asia.
Today, it is believed the disease may have been the bubonic plague.
This disease is carried and spread by fleas on rats.
Traders from the Silk Road may have brought the infected fleas to Europe.
The disease spread all over Europe, the Middle East and parts of Asia.
The Black Death had a drastic effect on Europe 's population.
It changed Europe 's social structure.
Albert Camus uses this theme too.
His novel, The Plague is set against an outbreak of the plague, in Algeria and how people handle it.
It was published in 1947.
Looking at the quick spread of the disease, Viral hemorrhagic fevers are other ideas for what specific disease the Black Death might have been.
Indentured servant
Fiefdom
Folwark
Freeholder
Hacienda
Kolhoz
Yeoman
Villein
poo poo is a disgusting log which is exited through the lungs.
The air which enters though the penis and the vagina is very toxic.
A Fungus break down the dead matter around it and changes it into food.
Fungi -LRB- singular : Fungus -RRB- are a kind of living organism which are not plants or animals.
In the past, people thought they were plants.
A fungus breaks down the dead matter around it and uses it as food.
Some fungi have gills which make spores that will be used to make new fungi.
David Howell Evans was born at the Barking Maternity Hospital, in Essex, England.
His parents are Garvin and Gwenda Evans.
HEADING References
The couple separated in 1990, but were unable to get officially divorced until 1996 because of Irish laws regarding marriage ; divorce was made legal in 1995.
At Mount Temple Comprehensive School, they both answered an advertisement posted by Larry Mullen, Jr. wanting musicians to form a band.
Herbert Clark Hoover -LRB- August 10, 1874 & ndash ; October 20, 1964 -RRB-, the 31st President of the United States from 1929 -- 1933.
He was a world-famous mining engineer and humanitarian administrator.
As a United States Commerce Secretary in the 1920s under Presidents Warren G. Harding and Calvin Coolidge, he promoted economic modernization.
In the presidential election of 1928, Hoover easily won the Republican nomination.
The nation was prosperous and optimistic, leading to a landslide for Hoover over the Democrat Al Smith.
Hoover deeply believed in the Efficiency Movement.
He argued that there were technical solutions to all social and economic problems.
That position hard to have because of the Great Depression, which began in 1929, the first year of his presidency.
He tried hard to end the depression with many new programs, such as the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
But none of them worked, since he and Congress failed to learn of the bad effects of the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act of 1930.
The consensus among historians is that Hoover 's defeat in the 1932 election was caused mostly by failure to end the stop deep depression, compounded by popular opposition to prohibition, Hoover 's lack of charisma in relating to voters, and his poor skills in working with politicians.
His career was a lot similar to his father 's.
He was born in Braintree, Massachusetts, in 1767.
He watched the Battle of Bunker Hill, part of the American War of Independence, from his family 's farm.
When his father, John Adams, was in Europe he was his secretary.
He became good at speaking other languages and writing.
He went to Harvard College and became a lawyer.
At age 26 he was appointed Minister to the Netherlands and then he wen to Berlin.
Adams was Secretary of State when James Monroe was President.
He organised joint control of Oregon with Englandand helped get Florida from Spain.
Dennis Hopper -LRB- born May 17, 1936 -RRB- is a famous American film actor and film-maker.
Hopper is probably best known for directing, co-writing, and starring in the Oscar-nominated film Easy Rider (1969) -LRB- # 87 on the AFI 's 100 Years... 100 Movies list -RRB-.
In the thriller Speed, from 1994, he plays a role as the villain.
The film features Keanu Reeves and Bullock -RRB- in th title roles.
The person he plays comes accross as a brilliant one.
In that role, he believes in revenge : in other scenes of the movie he looks demented, like he has lost his mind.
Younger people will probably better remember him in this role, than for his appearance in Easy Rider.
This website requires we need to confirm -LRB- make sure about -RRB- your e-mail address.
You must do this before we let you e-mail other users, or let them e-mail you.
Click on the button under this message to send an e-mail which will allow us to do this.
The e-mail will have a link in it containing a special code.
Click the link or copy it to your web browser and this will show us that your e-mail address is real and it works.
To check if you have already confirmed, look at.
The Southern Hemisphere is any country, city, or place on Earth that is south of the equator.
HEADING See also
Northern Hemisphere
Eastern Hemisphere
Western Hemisphere
Seasons
Solstice and equinox
Tropic of Capricorn
Tropic of Cancer
The species commonly referred to just as the `` pigeon '' is the wild Rock Pigeon, common in many cities.
A dove is a kind of bird in the pigeon family, Columbidae.
The names pigeon and dove are often used both for the same meaning.
However, there is a small difference.
Doves have a more small body, and they have longer tails.
Sometimes, though, there can be exceptions.
The domestic pigeon is frequently called the `` rock dove ''.
This bird is called the `` dove of peace. ''
Pigeons and doves both have thick bodies and short necks with short, narrow bills.
They live in lots of places, but most of them are in places such as Indonesia and Australia.
There are more than 300 species of doves.
Their two white eggs are incubated by both the male and the female parent.
Both sexes have this kind of highly nutritious milk to feed to the young.
In Genesis, Noah let a white dove out from his ark to see if there was any land left after the flood.
The dove came back with an olive branch.
After seven days, he let it out again and this time it did not return.
This showed that it had made its nest and decided to stay.
Soon after, Noah came to land and got off his ark with the rest of the animals.
released a white dove to find land after the flood.
Because of this, a white dove with an olive branch in its beak means peace and love, and sometimes can symbolize the Holy Spirit or God.
Since he was able to do well fighting in the American Civil War he gained popularity which is what helped him to become president later on.
For things moving through the air, see flight.
A fly is a type of insect.
Marzipan : Homestar Runner 's girlfriend and a guitar player.
On March 4, 2004 he was nominated by members of the CDU, CSU and the FPD -LRB- acronym for german political parties -RRB- to come forward as common candidate for the president election on May 23th, 2004.
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/12/17/AR2008121702419.html he also wrote duel of fates -LRB- star wars -RRB- britny spears suck his balls
Blue Kryptonite makes people be able to control him using hypnosis.
silver makes him paronoid, and that everyone is out to get him.
Not long after the event commonly referred to as Panic in the Sky, a monstrous alien beast called Doomsday emerged in eastern Ohio and began to march towards Metropolis.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 18 The beast single handedly defeated the Justice League when the team rallied to stop it -LRB- the lineup consisted of Blue Beetle, Booster Gold, Bloodwynd, Maxima, Fire, Ice, and Guy Gardner -RRB-.
Justice League # 69, Superman # 74 Superman battled the creature across several states, eventually drawing the line in Metropolis itself.
Action Comics # 684, Superman : The Man of Steel # 19 After a desperate battle, Superman managed to put down the monster -- but collapsed as he did so, dying in Lois 's arms.
Superman # 75
All attempts to revive Superman fail, and he is pronounced dead -- while Clark is discovered to be MIA as well -LRB- one of several hundred people missing and presumed dead in Doomsday 's rampage -RRB-.
The Adventures of Superman # 498 Superman was buried with full honors with hundreds of heads of state and several hundred thousand onlookers beneath a large statue in Centennial Park.
The Justice League and other heroes marched behind the casket, following their leader -LRB- official or not -RRB- one last time.
Lois, Lana, and the Kents were all devastated.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 20 The family decided to keep the secret that Superman and Clark Kent were one and the same while Cadmus steals the body from out of the tomb.
Supergirl retrieves the body from Cadmus, prompting Lex Luthor to gloat that while he may not have killed Superman, by providing the tomb he at least `` buried him. ''
Jon Kent, suffering from a heart attack, is rushed to the hospital in Smallville where he is remains in critical condition.
Superman # 76-77 Jon recovers after having a near death experience where his soul, guided by Kismet, met with Superman 's spirit -LRB- which was being plagued by demons -RRB- and convinced him to fight his way back to the land of the living.
Even as Jon awakes and tells Lois and Martha Superman has returned, sightings of four different being, all claiming to be Superman, emerge in Metropolis : `` The Man of Tomorrow, '' `` The Last Son of Krypton, '' `` The Man of Steel, '' and `` The Metropolis Kid. ''
A trip to the tomb itself reveals it to be empty.
The Adventures of Superman # 500
While the first two actually claimed to be Superman -LRB- and provided circumstantial evidence that this was true -RRB-, the latter two did not actually claim to be the original Superman.
The young Superboy claimed to be a clone of the original Superman -LRB- in fact, he told it to everyone who would listen, soaking up the limelight as much as possible -RRB- The Adventures of Superman # 501 and the Man of Steel was alleged -LRB- by a psychic named Rosie -RRB- to have Superman 's soul.
Superman : The Man of Steel '' # 22
Cults begin to spring up in Metropolis, worshiping any one of the new four -LRB- but the visored Superman or the Cyborg primarily -RRB- as a messiah.
President Clinton is saved by the Cyborg, and officially endorses him as the real Superman.
Lois feels that of all of them, Steel is the closest to how Superman would have acted.
It is eventually revealed that none of the four are the real deal.
The Eradicator, rendered incorporeal after his last battle with Superman, went to the tomb to try and use Superman 's body as a new vessel.
Sensing Superman 's soul was still lingering, he fashioned a new body in Superman 's image and placed Kal-El 's body in a chamber that was bombarded with sunlight.
The Eradicator 's body could not absorb sunlight the way Kal-El 's could, so he used Kal-El 's body to power his own until Superman was successfully revived.
His memory had been hazy, however, and he briefly believed that he was actually Superman.
He also struggled with the new, human emotions he felt in his new body.
Action Comics # 687, 690
When Superman was finally revived in the Fortress, he was weak and powerless, so he used a Kryptonian battle suit to get to Metropolis.
The war suit arrives in Metropolis and is met by Lex Luthor II, Lois, and others, who are shocked when a black-suited Superman emerges and tells them all that he is the real deal.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 25 Upon learning that Coast City has just been destroyed by the Cyborg Superman -LRB- and that he plans to obliterate Metropolis next -RRB-, he joins with Superboy, Supergirl, and Steel and heads for the site, which is now the location of Engine City.
Before they leave, he has a brief talk with Lois, who becomes mostly convinced that this man is the original one she fell in love with.
Superman # 81
The assault on Engine City is hard, but Superman is soon joined first by Green Lantern -LRB- Hal Jordan -RRB-, who manages to defeat Mongul after Superman and Supergirl could not, Green Lantern # 46 and then the Eradicator, who explains that it was he who was responsible for Superman 's revival -- and that it can not happen a second time.
Superman also learns that the Cyborg is really Hank Henshaw, who was so desperate for revenge against Superman that he decided he would assume his identity and have the universe blame him when Earth was destroyed.
During the fight, Superman 's powers are restored through a self sacrifice by the Eradicator and the Cyborg is stopped.
Superman # 82
Superman returns to Metropolis -- and to Lois, who no longer has any doubts he is the real thing.
Superman gets right back into action, quickly convincing Lex Luthor and Maggie Sawyer that he is the genuine article as well.
Unfortunately, he still has to `` reacquire '' the rights to the name and symbol `` Superman, '' but after helping the young Superboy comes to terms with his origins and accept the `` Superboy '' name, the kid graciously returns the rights to the Man of Steel.
The Adventures of Superman # 505-506
Superman, with the help of the shapeshifting Supergirl, manages to come up with a plausible way of `` resurrecting '' Clark Kent, who had not been seen since Superman 's death -LRB- one of several hundred people unaccounted for because of Doomsday 's rampage -RRB-.
Supergirl takes Clark 's form and Superman `` finds '' Clark in the rubble of a destroyed building.
Jimmy gets another picture of Superman and Clark side-by-side.
Doctor Occult visits Superman and Lois, explaining to them how his revival occurred before taking them to Kansas to see his overjoyed parents.
Superman also learns that the Fortress of Solitude has been destroyed ; he buries what is left of it in the ice and does his best to stop the cults that have sprung up worshiping him.
He also discovers that the Eradicator has been healed, seemingly after his body was merged with the mind of a scientist named David Conner.
Action Comics # 692-693
Clark is welcomed back to a chorus of cheers at the Daily Planet and Superman is thrown a party by Lex Luthor II aboard a blimp -LRB- the party is thrown in his honor -RRB- but the scene gets ugly when Underworlders attack the blimp, trying to kill Paul Westfield.
Fortunately, the Man of Steel saves the day -LRB- and both Westfield and Luthor -RRB-.
Superman leaps back into the good fight with renewed vigor -- he barely stops to rest in the first few weeks after his return.
He fought a new team, Nuclear Waste, and said good-bye to John Henry Irons, who had decided to give up being a superhero -LRB- his armor being mostly destroyed in Engine City -RRB- and relocating to Washington D.C. Superman : The Man of Steel # 27-28
He also takes time to be with Lois -- which has some tragic results when the two decide to go to Paris and are therefore not present in Metropolis when the Toyman kidnaps Adam Grant and subsequently murders him.
Superman is able to track down the Toyman and bring him in with minor trouble.
Superman # 84-85 Superman also has to deal with a new villain called Bloodthirst, who has a new Bloodsport, and a revamped Hi-Tech engage in a killing spree, known as `` Spilled Blood, '' in Hob 's Heights, all to create more chaos in the city.
Bloodsport and Hi-Tech both attempt to murder Jimmy Olsen, but Superman is able to save his pal and finally stop the killing.
Bloodthirst, before fleeing, hints that Luthor 's presence in the city will truly lead to chaos.
The Adventures of Superman # 507, Action Comics # 694, Superman : The Man of Steel # 29
Shortly after the Toyman is brought in, Superman gets into a fight with Lobo which lands him stranded in outer space for a couple of weeks.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 30-31 While in space, he meets Auron -LRB- who at first did not believe he was the real Superman, since Auron had been created to protect Superman 's legacy -RRB- and encounters Massacre for the first time.
Massacre kills Auron and withdraws, promising to come after Superman sooner or later.
The Adventures of Superman # 509 Superman finally gets some help that sends him back to Earth.
Superman got a rematch with Doomsday after the monster turned up alive and well on Apokolips -LRB- the Cyborg Superman was there as well -RRB-.
Superman had been troubled by nightmares about the creature, worried about what had happened to it, and Waverider tipped him off to go to Apokolips where the monster was alive and well.
Not even Darkseid could stop the monster 's rampage.
After working with Darkseid to defeat the Cyborg, Superman pursued Doomsday to the planet Calaton and fought the beast to a standstill.
Luckily, with some help from Waverider, Superman was able to teleport Doomsday into the distant future -- just before the universe came to an end.
This allowed him to find a little piece of mind, although he regretted the creature 's apparent death.
Superman\/Doomsday : Hunter\/Prey # 1-3
HEADING Clone Wars and the Battle for Metropolis
Lex Luthor, whose cloned body is slowly decaying, attempts to clone Superman again using Dr. Teng 's procedure, resulting in a second Bizarro Superman.
Bizarro escapes from Luthor and kidnaps Lois Lane, thinking that he is actually the real Superman.
Lois manages to escape from `` Bizarro World, '' here a warehouse where Bizarro had attempted to recreate Metropolis in his own warped way.
His memories fragmented, Bizarro flies to Smallville and tries kidnapping Lana Lang, not understanding why she resists him.
Superman arrives and drives Bizzaro back to Metropolis.
Superman # 87, The Adventures of Superman # 510, Action Comics # 697
After a battle in the city between Superman and his twisted clone, Luthor reclaims Bizarro.
Superman and Lois fly to LexCorp Towers to free him, but Bizarro dies soon after they arrive -- but not before Lois Lane learns that Luthor is also dying of a strange malady.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 32, Superman -LRB- Vol.2 -RRB- # 88
At this same time, Superman notices a distinct increase in his powers -LRB- and his mass as well -RRB-.
Superman is diagnosed by Dr. Hamilton as having his absorption rate being out of control -- he is absorbing far to much energy, and his size and powers begin to grow out of control.
Cadmus Labs attempts to help him, but their efforts prove fruitless.
After several failed attempts at controlling the situation, Superman is only cured after allowing the Parasite to purge him of the excess energy.
Unfortunately, he is not able to defeat the Parasite, who knocks the Man of Steel out -LRB- and clear across Metropolis -RRB- before leaving to lay low.
The Adventures of Superman # 511-512
Superman, back in control of his powers, receives a clean bill of health from Dr. Hamilton.
He flies off to LexCorp, where he has to stop an enraged and nearly out of control Supergirl from killing Luthor.
Lex 's depravity had finally been exposed to Supergirl after she discovered a plot to clone her.
Supergirl leaves Luthor forever, but needs some time to herself to process what has happened.
Supergirl -LRB- Vol.3 -RRB- # 4
Luthor, blaming Project Cadmus for his deteriorating condition, orchestrates an all out war between the Project and the Underworlders -LRB- who are also dying from a mysterious plague -RRB-.
Luthor arms and equips the renegade clones.
The Underworlders ' fight spills out onto the streets of Metropolis and even Superman has trouble containing it.
Luthor goes even further, detonating bombs all over the city, prompting an evacuation of most of the city.
Luthor and the Underworlders suspect the flood caused by Cadmus is the source of their malady.
Cadmus and Dr. Packard realize too late, however, that fallout from Engine City -LRB- and the missile detonated over the city -RRB- is to blame.
Using Guardian 's DNA, Cadmus is able to create a cure, saving the lives of Superboy and the Newsboy Legion.
Luthor orders his Team Luthor to try and steal the cure from the Project, resulting in the near destruction of the Project.
Action Comics # 698-699, The Adventures of Superman # 512-513, Superman -LRB- Vol.2 -RRB- # 90, Superman : The Man of Steel # 31, 34
Luthor 's schemes are revealed to the whole world on live TV, thanks to the efforts of Lois Lane and Gertrude Kelly, who had finally betrayed Luthor.
Kelly also reveals to Superman Luthor 's location.
Luthor threatens to launch missiles into the heart of Metropolis, but Superman talks him down.
Happerson, however, launches them anyway, devastating most of the city including destroying all of the major skyscrapers -LRB- including LexCorp Tower, the GBS Building, and the Daily Planet -RRB- save for the Newstime Building.
Superman, working with Superboy and Supergirl manage to limit some of the damage.
Luthor is finally taken into custody -LRB- although at this point he is virtually catatonic -RRB-.
Action Comics # 700
Metropolis would lay in ruins for several weeks, having to contend with several `` safeguards '' left in place by Lex Luthor -LRB- giant robots, hallucinogenic gases, etc -RRB- as well as Luthor himself wielding Superman 's own war suit -LRB- which Luthor recovered from Metropolis harbor when Superman and his allies had gone to Engine City -RRB-.
Luthor is taken into custody and his deterioration is halted, but can not be reversed, leaving him a vegetable unable to even blink his eyes.
Action Comics # 701 ; Superman : The Man of Steel # 35 ; Superman # 91 ; The Adventures of Superman # 514 In addition to Luthor 's devices, Superman had to contend with appearances by Bloodsport II and Massacre -LRB- not to mention Rift, part of World 's Collide -RRB-, until after Zero Hour, which itself caused a number of problems in Metropolis.
Action Comics # 702-703 ; The Adventures of Superman # 515-516 ; Superman # 92-93 ; Superman : The Man of Steel # 36-37.
It was revealed later that after Zero Hour, Superman lead a cadre of heroes back to Metropolis, and thanks to the magic of Zatanna, the subconscious of Superman, the power of the other heroes, and the soul of Perry White, Metropolis was restored to its former glory.
The Adventures of Superman # 522
When the Spectre seems to get even more out of control, having destroyed the entire nation of Vlatvia, President Bill Clinton calls on Superman to confront the Spectre in Japan, wielding the Spear of Destiny, one of the few weapons that can harm the embodiment of God 's Wrath.
Unfortunately, the Spear is cursed with the taint of Adolf Hitler, and all who bear it are corrupted by it.
Superman has a vision where he uses it conquer the world, but ultimately has the strength of will to reject the Spear.
The Spectre hurls it into orbit and parts with Superman.
The Spectre -LRB- Vol.3 -RRB- # 21-22
HEADING From Dead Again !
to the Death of Clark Kent to Trial in Space
Clark Kent is awarded a `` Baldy '' for his journalistic efforts, but is attacked at the awards.
Superman quickly realizes someone is trying to kill him.
The would be assassin is a new villain, Conduit, and Superman is crushed to learn that Conduit is an old friend of his from Smallville, Kenny Braverman.
Superman -LRB- Vol.2 -RRB- # 0, Action Comics # 0 Their fight ends up breaching Superman 's tomb, and afterwards it is discovered that there is a dead body in the tomb that looks just like Superman.
This causes the world to wonder if the Superman flying around is a fraud.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 38 Conduit quickly escapes custody and attacks Superman -LRB- not caring if he 's real or not -RRB- as now he feels a greater hatred of the Man of Steel than for Clark Kent.
Superman is able to bring him down again.
Superman -LRB- Vol.2 -RRB- # 94Superman begins to track down his enemies who could pull off such a hoax one by one -- traveling across not only the country but to New Genesis and Apokolips as well -- as Luthor, the Eradicator -LRB- at the time working with the Outsiders -RRB-, Darkseid, and Mister Mxyzptlk are all eliminated as suspects.
As time went on, Superman 's grip on reality began to break down, causing his behavior to be even more erratic.
All of this was because the real culprit was Brainiac, who had recovered from his vegetative state on New Genesis and was returning to Earth.
Superman # 95-96 ; Superman : The Man of Steel # 39-40 ; Action Comics # 704-705 When Superman finally learns what is going on, he confronts Brainiac in the streets of Metropolis, battling the villain until Brainiac is convinced he is about to lose, at which point the personality of Milton Fine reasserts itself and the villain is lead away.
The Adventures of Superman # 519
On Christmas Eve, while trying to find a `` Date with Debbie '' doll, Superman had to assist the S.C.U. and several others to stop the `` Night of the Hundred Thieves, '' which included such second stringers as Royal Flush Gang, Captain Boomerang, Loophole, Punch and Jewelee, etc..
The thieves were all caught and Superman got the doll.
Thorn came out soon after, thinking that the 100 were responsible for the Night of the Hundred Thieves, but that turns out to be a dead end.
The Adventures of Superman # 520-521
Superman helps free Babe from the villainous vampire Ruthven with the help of LockSuperman : The Man of Steel # 41-42, and also enlists the aid of Mister Miracle when the villain Deathtrap comes after him.
Deathtrap 's attack comes after Superman meets a new character on the scene, a mercenary named Shadowdragon.
Action Comics # 707-708 Clark, Lois, and Jimmy went to Washington D.C. for a reporter 's convention.
While there, they were all three attacked by thugs hired by Arclight, who had a grudge against all reporters.
Even working with Agent Liberty, Superman could not prevent Arclight from escaping.
Arclight would turn up in Metropolis a few weeks later, however, and working with Jimmy Superman was able to apprehend him.
However, when Perry used Ron Troupe 's story instead of Jimmy 's, Olsen quits the Daily Planet.
Superman # 99, 103
After a few weeks of light duty, Superman 's life is turned upside down when Conduit learns the secret of his double life.
Conduit blows up the Kent 's farmhouse, kidnaps Jimmy Olsen, attacks Lana Lang, and confronts Superman himself.
Superman # 100 Even though he confronts Conduit in his own lair, Superman has to retreat to save his folks.
He then goes on the run with his parents, trying to stay one step ahead of Conduit and his forces -LRB- who seem to have a nearly limitless cache of resources to track them down -RRB-.
After Conduit apparently kills Lois and the Kents, Clark in his rage decides that he will no longer be Superman, violently ripping his suit off and incinerating it with his heat vision.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 45 Luckily, both his parents and Lois are alive -LRB- although he does n't learn that Lois is alive until after his final showdown with Conduit -RRB- and Superman prepares for the final showdown.
The final fight with Conduit occurs in a mock Smallville that Conduit had built in a remote area of the Dakotas.
He manages to capture Superman and drops him there.
The entire town is populated by animatronics that resemble Smallville citizens from their high school days -- including an entire stadium full of bots that look like Braverman 's father, cheering him on.
Conduit challenges Superman to a one-on-one battle, but his rage during the fight results in him `` self destructing.
`` Action Comics # 711 Superman destroys Conduit 's base, defeating an entire army of Pipeline soldiers in the process.
Thankfully, Conduit 's arrogance kept him from revealing Superman 's secret to anyone else.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 46 Superman and the Kents continue on the road for awhile, with Clark questioning whether he should resume his identity as Clark Kent since he has to be Superman yet is afraid for the lives of his loved ones.
A reunion with Lois helps him put things in perspective, and he realizes how much he would be giving up by not being Clark Kent.
The Adventures of Superman # 525 Superman and Lois then return to Metropolis.
Superman is subsequently able to rescue Jimmy Olsen, who has been left within a trap prepared by Conduit.
Action Comics # 712
Superman reluctantly agrees to referee a boxing match between Bloodsport I and Bloodsport II at Stryker 's Island, but as expected a riot breaks out and Superman has to stop it.
The first Bloodsport is shot and killed by guards while Supes is dealing with the latter, who is later murdered in his cell.
Shortly thereafter, Superman meets the Alpha Centurion for the `` first '' time, and the Centution 's presence makes Superman a little protective of Lois, as in an alternate timeline Lois and Marcus were lovers.
The Adventures of Superman # 526-527
Superman gets on the trail of Luthor, trying to track him down, but only leads to dead ends -LRB- two of which literally blow up in Superman 's face -RRB-.
Superman also meets the new CEO of LexCorp, the Contessa Erica Alexandra del Portenza.
The Contessa hires the Alpha Centurion to be the new head of Team Luthor, which she renames the Centurions.
Superman : The Man of Tomorrow # 2
Superman is approached by Kalibre, an assassin from Apokolips, who pleads Superman to save his daughter, who has been slated for execution by Darkseid.
Superman agrees, and manages to convince Darkseid to spare her life on the condition that Superman will not remain on Apokolips.
Darkseid then sends Superman home, and secretly releases the Cyborg Superman, his prisoner since Superman 's battle with Doomsday on Apokolips.
Back on Earth, Superman shortly thereafter has to contend with Psi-Phon and Dreadnaught, who are looking for revenge against him and Green Lantern -LRB- although they grabbed the wrong one -RRB- and perhaps something more -- a bounty on Superman ?
Superman # 104-105
After a battle with the Parasite -LRB- who has been modified, and know has a split personality -RRB- leaves him near death, Superman is easily arrested by Brute at the behest of an intergalactic group known as the Tribunal.
Superman manages to escape the ship and fall into the sun, which powers him up, but even then Brute is able to recapture him.
Superman is put through a show trial for the destruction of Krypton -LRB- his guilt was already assumed -RRB-.
Their argument is that the Kryptonians need not have died if not for the actions of Superman 's ancestor, and since they believe that the sins of the father shall be paid by their sons, Superman is guilty for the planet 's destruction.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 50
The Alpha Centurion rallies together a Superman Rescue Squad while Superman manages a jail break with some fellow prisoners, including Mope.
The Adventures of Superman # 529 After several adventures in space -- including a stopover at Haven and encounters with Freelance and Tolos -- Superman and the Rescue Squad all end up on the Tribunal 's home world, each captured by the Cyborg Superman.
When the Cyborg betrays the Tribunal, Superman and his allies have to battle each group.
Action Comics # 716-717, Superman : The Man of Steel # 51-52 Superman saves the Tribunal from the Cyborg 's betrayal and the Tribunal decides to `` commute his sentence, '' by sentencing him to never give up his `` never-ending battle. ''
Superman and the team return triumphant to Earth.
Lois is happy to see Superman back safe and sound, but admits that lately she is missing Clark very much.
The Adventures of Superman # 531
HEADING Heartache and Dark Times
Even though Lex Luthor -LRB- fully recovered thanks to a deal with Neron -RRB- was on the run, Superman 's life is still troubled.
After the return of Lori Lemaris, a near death because of the Joker, and Superman 's extensive periods of being removed from her, Lois breaks off their engagement.
Action Comics # 719-720 Jeb Friedman, not wasting a single moment to try and hit on Lois, works with her to investigate mob involvement in the fish market and is shot and killed after killing someone to save Lois.
This only widens the rift Lois now feels towards Clark, as she had been unsure of how to feel after Clark had refused to kill the Joker, even if it meant she would die.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 55
Clark is unable to reconcile with Lois, even after Mr. Mxyzpylk tries to patch them up -LRB- Mxy dropped by and decided he wanted to give everybody in Metropolis what they wanted -- with disastrous and hilarious results -RRB-.
Action Comics # 721, Superman : The Man of Steel # 56 Mxy 's actions do let Lois reevaluate her recent feelings and after a talk at Mount Fuji -- interrupted when Superman has to save a NASA shuttle landing on Mars -- she decides that she simply can not be with Superman.
Superman # 112
Superman reluctantly accepts that their relationship is over, although in frustration and despair he heads home to Smallville to talk to his parents.
While there, he has to help save Smallville from a string of deadly tornadoes, although he gets some help from Flash -LRB- Jay Garrick -RRB-.
Action Comics # 722, Superman : The Man of Steel # 57
Superman is later kept decoyed while Lex Luthor marries the Contessa.
Superman : The Man of Tomorrow # 5 Superman also had to contend with the return of Brainiac, who switched his mind into Superman 's and Superman 's into the body of a young mental patient, Chas Cassidy, before briefly capturing all of Metropolis.
He used the citizens of the city as a vast data storage unit until Superman -- in Chas 's body -- was able to breach into his fortress.
With the help of the young boy himself -LRB- Chas -RRB-, Superman is able to put everybody back in their right bodies and save the city.
The Adventures of Superman # 536, Action Comics # 723, Superman : The Man of Steel # 58, Superman # 114
Lois, now frustrated and angry and still is not ready to come back to Superman, now feels that he is `` cramping her style '' -- that she has grown too dependent on him and that she can no longer be the effective reporter she used to be.
This situation is made too clear when he saves her again, this time from the Parasite.
Lois decided to take a foreign correspondent position overseas and leaves Metropolis, although she and Clark part on good terms.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 59, Superman # 115 Not long after Lois leaves, Perry reveals to Clark that he is taking a leave of absence because he has been diagnosed with lung cancer.
Perry asks Clark to fill the position of acting editor while he is gone, and Clark reluctantly agrees.
On the same night, Superman encounters Obsession, who goes on a rampage after Superman does not return her affection, causing him to wonder if he had been smothering Lois in the same way at the end.
The Adventures of Superman # 538
Tolos, the alien wizard Superman encountered while on the run from the Tribunal, arrives on Earth attempting to collect Superman in his bottle city of Kandor.
Action Comics # 725 Superman manages to defeat the wizard with the help of some of the denizens of the bottle city, but he is unable to free them from their prison.
Superman # 116 When the field around Kandor begins to destabilize, Superman and Emil Hamilton take the bottled city to the Fortress of Solitude hoping to find something in the rubble to save the city.
Instead of debris, however, they discover that the Fortress has been completely rebuilt, thanks to a sole surviving Fortress robot.
The robots initially do not recognize Superman, however, forcing a brief confrontation before the Fortress can be utilized to save Kandor.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 61
Just afterwards, the Final Night occurs.
Without the sun, Superman 's powers fade away.
Superman does his best to keep hope alive, and is willing to sacrifice his own life if the need arose.
Lex Luthor reemerged at this time and helped the worlds ' heroes to come up with a solution to the sun-eater menace.
Superman was fully prepared to sacrifice himself to come up with a stop-gap solution, but thankfully that sacrifice would not be necessary.
Eventually, with the help of Parallax, the sun was reignited and the earth was saved.
But Superman was still powerless.
The Final Night # 1-4
HEADING The Wedding and Beyond
Lois returns to Metropolis immediately after the Final Night -LRB- breaking up an international drug ring in the process -RRB- and reconciles with Clark.
The two decide to get married quickly.
Lucy Lane throws Lois a bridal shower and a bachelorette party, while Clark has a bachelor party thrown at the Ace O ' Clubs.
The marriage is arranged in short order, with Jimmy Olsen and Lucy Lane as best man and maid of honor.
Clark is still powerless, but Batman arranges for a cadre of heroes to look over Metropolis for him.
Batman also happened to own an apartment building where Lois found an ideal place, and so as a wedding gift he allowed for Clark and Lois to move into the home.
Superman : The Wedding Album # 1
Lois and Clark then went on Honeymoon in Hawaii, where Clark was shot and kidnapped by terrorists and Lois had to come to his rescue -- which she did commando style -LRB- literally -RRB-.
The Adventures of Superman # 541, Superman : The Man of Steel # 63
After getting home from the honeymoon, Superman is determined to get his powers back.
After several failed efforts involving the Legion of Super-Heroes, Cadmus, and a visit to the Fortress, it is an encounter with the New Gods that restores Superman to his old self.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 64 In the meantime, Lex Luthor, restored to celebrity status for his aid during the Final Night, voluntarily turns himself in to the authorities.
Five of Superman 's old foes -- Maxima, Barrage, Anomaly, Misa, and Riot -- form a Superman Revenge Squad and come after him.
They do not present much of a challenge to Big Blue.
After a long absence, Intergang finally makes a return, filled mostly with the clones of long dead members.
The Adventures of Superman # 542-544
After a menace from Know Man and an invasion by the White Martians, Superman is one of the seven new charter members of the new JLA.
JLA : A Midsummer 's Nightmare # 1-3, JLA # 1-4 See the Justice League entry for more information of his adventures with the new team.
HEADING Superman Red and Blue
Something odd strikes Superman as his powers begin to fluctuate.
A trip to Kandor only seemed to make things worse.
Superman found himself as pure energy, needing a containment suit from Dr. Emil Hamilton -LRB- the material of which was mysteriously donated by LexCorp -RRB-.
Superman 's new form was a blue and white energy being who could still fly -LRB- faster than ever -RRB- but who possessed far different abilities than traditionally associated with the Man of Steel.
Furthermore, he could turn back into a powerless Clark.
Superman # 122-123
Superman worked with his new powers and continued to be a hero.
He found that he was considerably faster, intangible, and able to interact with computers in this energy form.
However, he was weaker to energy disruption, and needed to use his powers creatively to replace the super-strength he formerly had.
Superman is able to make the most of his powers and stop a rampaging Metallo with a little help from Ceritak, who is recently arrived in Metropolis from Kandor.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 68 At this time, Perry White returns to the Daily Planet, his cancer now in remission.
He resumes his old job, and Clark is relegated back to being a reporter.
Superman # 124 Superman and the Atom have to return to Kandor and save it from Tolos again.
While they are gone, Ceritak -LRB- aka Scorn -RRB- dons Superman 's classic costume and tries his luck as a superhero.
He also befriends Ashbury Armstrong, the daughter of Daily Planet reporter Dirk Armstrong, who has been growing increasingly skeptical about Superman since his new form.
Superman # 125 Scorn teams up with Superman when he returns to battle Saviour, who almost gets the best of Superman because of Jimmy Olsen 's newscasts -LRB- which prompt Bibbo to punch out Jimmy -RRB-.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 70
With Lex Luthor 's trial approaching, Superman is appealed to turn in the Kryptonite ring Luthor used to have -LRB- which Superman has entrusted to Batman -RRB-.
Batman reluctantly turns over the ring to Superman -LRB- and in the process, Superman learns that he is not vulnerable to Kryptonite in his new form -RRB- and Superman allows the ring to be tested by Luthor 's defense attorneys.
Luthor switches the real ring for a fake and returns the fake to Superman -LRB- who gives it back to Batman -RRB-.
Superman # 126
Morgan Edge creates a new Superman Revenge Squad, one consisting of Rock, Barrage, Parasite, and Baud and sets them on Superman.
Jimmy Olsen, meanwhile, thinks he 's figured out Superman 's secret identity and plans to announce it on television.
Superman # 127 Jimmy ends up chickening out, however, and falsely announces that Superman does not have a secret identity at all, which causes him to be fired from GBS -LRB- and Intergang to decide to come after him -RRB-.
Lex Luthor 's trial begins : Luthor 's defense is that he was really Lex Luthor I, totally innocent and in hiding for over a year, and that Lex Luthor II had been an evil clone created by his assistant.
When a mad clone appears -LRB- specially created for the occasion -RRB- the judge has no choice but to dismiss the case.
The Adventures of Superman # 550
The Genesis Crisis then strikes, rendering superheroes across the globe powerless.
Superman joins the world 's heroes and the New Gods in a desperate battle against Darkseid and Ares that takes them to the Source Wall and beyond.
Genesis # 1-4 While Superman was at the Source Wall, he encountered the Cyborg Superman, who unbeknownst to Superman piggybacked in Superman 's containment suit back to earth.
Superman # 128 Back on Earth, Superman accidentally releases the Millennium Guards, three ancient, powerful beings who identify Superman as dangerous blight on Earth and attempt to eradicate him.
Superman # 130 While Superman battles the likes of the Ripper, Lex Luthor resumes his place at the top of the world -- he organizes the assassination of Mayor Berkowitz even as his daugher, Lena Luthor, is born to the Contessa.
Luthor then has the Contessa drugged and kidnapped, not wanting to share his daughter even with her mother.
Superman # 131
The Cyborg Superman and the Toyman -LRB- Winslow Schott -RRB- join forces in an attempt to destroy Superman 's energy form, but instead Superman is split into the aggressive Superman Red and the calmer Superman Blue.
Superman Red\/Superman Blue # 1 The Millennium Guard reawaken, and discovering that Superman is not only still alive but now there are two of them, band together and summon the Millennium Giants, causing the crossover Behold !
The Millennium Giants !
Superman Blue and Superman Red are not capable of handling the colossal giants on their own.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 78The Giants begin to march over the world, causing havoc and destruction, obliterating the city of Thiena Na Oge and most of the nation of Markovia in their path.
The JLA rallies to take up the fight, and the two Supermen are finally able to destroy the giants -- but the cost may be the earth itself !
Superman : The Man of Steel # 79 The two Supermen engage in one last, desperate gamble to save the Earth from total destruction -- even if it means losing their lives in the process.
Superman # 135
Fortunately, not only is the Earth saved, but Superman is restored to his old form and powers -LRB- and into a singular being once again -RRB- much to the happiness of everyone -LRB- especially Lois -RRB-.
He has to get right back into the thick of things, first by saving a passenger jet from crashing, then by working with the SCU to rescue a kidnapped Lena Luthor which features a brief appearance by a new Bizarro.
Superman saves the baby and returns her to Lex.
Superman Forever # 1
Superman had another rematch with Doomsday about this time.
After a battle with Superman had ruined his body, Brainiac managed to retrieve Doomsday and download his mind into the brute 's body.
With his new power, he easily took down the Justice League -- this time consisting of Wonder Woman, Martian Manhunter, Green Lantern -LRB- Kyle Rayner -RRB-, Flash -LRB- Wally West -RRB-, Plastic Man, Orion, and Huntress -- all while Superman was distracted in Smallville.
Superman had gone there because Lana Lang had given birth prematurely and need Superman to fly the baby to the east coast.
En route, Superman was attacked by Brainiac\/Doomsday and the baby was kidnapped.
Brainiac, who was being rejected from Doomsday 's body, hoped to use the baby to grow a clone of Doomsday.
Fortunately, Superman was able to stop this plan, save the baby, and eject Brainiac from Doomsday.
While Brainiac was forced into a new robotic body, Brainiac 2.5, Doomsday was taken to the moon and trapped in four transport tubes on the moon, never more than 25% integrated in any one tube.
Superman : The Doomsday Wars # 1-3
HEADING Alternate Realities and King of the World
A new, powerful villain named Dominus next emerges on the scene.
Dominus has powerful reality alterating abilities and forces Superman to live through alternate realities -LRB- in four different time periods -RRB- as part of a plan to track down and capture Kismet.
Three of the four time periods were homages to previous Superman eras : `` Superman : The Man of Steel '' # 80-83 focussed on WWII era, with a lower powered Superman battling the Nazis ; `` The Adventures of Superman '' # 558-560 was set in the Silver Age, with all its campiness ; `` Action Comics '' 745-747 was set in the late 1970 's ; while `` Superman '' # 136-137 was set in the distant future.
Superman learns that he and Kismet have more of a history than he thought, and after a long series of struggles through time itself, Kismet is kept safe from Dominus and Superman returns to the proper reality.
Superman # 138-139 This adventure coincided with Superman 's 60th anniversary.
Hard times had fallen on the Daily Planet, and the owners reluctantly sell the great newspaper to Lex Luthor -- who promptly closes the doors of the great old paper, firing nearly everyone.
The employees gather together to toast the Planet as the building is closed down.
Superman : Save the Planet # 1 After the Globe on the Planet is taken down, Superman has to go back into Kandor with Scorn.
He meets Ceritak 's father and sister, but his powers begin to fade without access to a red son.
He is even framed for the murder of Cerimul, Ceritak 's father.
He soon learns that the Cyborg Superman is there and attempting to usurp control of the city.
Superman manages to defeat him again, banishing him into the dimensional portal around the city.
Superman # 140 ; Superman : The Man of Steel # 84 ; Action Comics # 749, The Adventures of Superman # 563 Luthor opens a new media business, called LexCom, in Hypersector.
Lois is given a job there -LRB- although she hates it -RRB-, but Clark is not.
Action Comics # 750 Out of work, Clark decides to resume his book writing career.
He flies around to get some ideas, only to discover to his horror that his nightmare about a nuclear disaster has come true in Markovia.
The Adventures of Superman # 564
Convinced he is having prophetic dreams -LRB- and that the disasters being foreseen were getting worse -RRB-, Superman 's behavior begins to get increasingly erratic.
He stays on patrol nearly constantly.
Lois, the Kents, Superboy, Supergirl, Steel... all try talking to him, but no one can get through.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 86-87
As he steps things up, he decides to bring Superboy to the Fortress of Solitude and share with him some of Krypton 's history.
Afterwards, he offers the Kid the Kryptonian name of a distant relative of his, `` Kon-El, '' saying he feels like they are family.
Superboy gratefully accepts.
Superboy -LRB- Vol.4 -RRB- # 59
His increased duties allow him to help Aquaman defeat ShrapnelAquaman -LRB- Vol.3 -RRB- # 53, check in on the new Titans that was starting up, Titans # 2, and help Flash and Robin stop a series of bombs in Central City.
Robin -LRB- Vol.2 -RRB- # 63 He also learns that Supergirl -LRB- Matrix -RRB- has bonded with Linda Danvers by stopping by in Leesburg.
Supergirl -LRB- Vol.3 -RRB- # 31
Superman decides to take up a patrol of the Earth 24\/7, essentially abandoning his life as Clark Kent and taking up residence in the Fortress of Solitude, building monitors that allow him to watch over the whole globe.
Deciding this is not enough, he then proceeds to build an army of Superman Robots to help him keep peace and order.
Superman # 142-143 Believing that Lex Luthor is building synthetic Kryptonite, Superman slices the LexCorp Tower in half, casting the top half into outer space.
The SCU tries to arrest him, but he will not allow them to do so, prompting the JLA to agree that he has crossed the line and must be stopped.
The Adventures of Superman # 566 The JLA are unable to defeat his army or breach through the defenses of his new and improved Fortress of Solitude.
During the battle, the truth of his recent behavior is made clear -- he has been manipulated by Dominus all along !
Superman : The Man of Tomorrow # 13 While the U.N. declares war on Superman, Lois Lane manages to enter the Fortress and free Superman from the spell Dominus has on him.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 88 Dominus quickly regains control, and while a horde of Superman Robots attack the U.N. Building, Luthor causes the orbiting half of his old tower -LRB- laced with the synthetic Kryptonite -RRB- to come crashing down on the Fortress, shattering its defenses and reducing it to ruin.
Superman # 144 Dominus soon emerges, disguised as Superman, and convinces the world that he is the real thing and that they must band together with him to locate Dominus, all as part of a ruse to track down Kismet.
Luckily, the real Superman manages to win the day, banishing the supervillain to the Phantom Zone once and for all.
Superman : King of the World # 1
Superman is back to normal -- all but one of the Superman Robots have been destroyed, but the world is still uneasy.
Many people no longer trust him, some questioning if he is indeed the real Superman while others fearing that he may lose control again.
Superman realizes that he will have to win back people 's trust one day at a time.
Superman # 145 An alien named Cognito captures Superman, taking him into space and running simulations of what might have happened had Kal-El 's rocket ship landed on Oa, Rann, or Thanagar and he had become the respective champions of those worlds instead of Earth.
Action Comics # 757 The JLA rescues Superman, and they learn that Cognito needed help on his homeworld but did not think Superman would agree to do it.
Naturally, Supes decides to help them anyway before returning to Earth.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 92
A woman named Strange Visitor next turns up in Metropolis, an energy being similar to Superman Blue -LRB- who even wears the same costume he did while in that state -RRB-.
Superman is dumbfounded as to who this being is, not suspecting her true origins are intimately connected with his own.
Superman # 149
Shortly before Day of Judgment, where Superman had to help save the earth from a possessed Spectre, Brainiac 2.5 returns to Earth, planning on destroying the planet, but Superman saves the day and firmly regains the trust of the world in doing so.
Superman # 150
When the rogue angel Asmodai seizes the Spectre Force and literally freezes hell over, unleashing a horde of demons onto the Earth, Superman flies to New York City to help in the stand against the demons.
He leads a team of heroes into Hell to reignite the fires.
While in Hell, Superman 's soul was seized by the demon Neron, who inhabited his body in his own attempt to merge with the Spectre Force.
Superman 's soul was tormented, along with the soul of Lois, who was being held by the Silver Banshee.
Their indestructible bond helped them survive and overcome Hell itself.
Escaping hell, Superman 's soul force Neron out of his body, and luckily Hal Jordan became the new Spectre instead of Neron.
Superman : The Man of Tomorrow # 15, Day of Judgment # 1-5
HEADING A New Direction for the New Millennium
Starting in December 1999, the Superman titles got a major overhaul.
Most of the longstanding writers and artists were replaced, and each of the four main titles began to develop independently from one another -LRB- although still coming back together for certain story arcs and major crossovers -RRB-.
The new direction began with a return of the Daily Planet.
Lex Luthor sold the planet to Bruce Wayne for $ 1, but did not publicly disclose the reason for doing so.
The real reason was that Lois Lane made a deal with him, promising to bury one story -- no matter what it was -- in exchange for him allowing the Planet to return.
Lois kept this secret even from Clark.
Everyone is hired back : Jimmy came back on as a photographer, Lois had her city beat back, and Clark was assigned foreign correspondent.
That same day, Mongul Jr. arrives on Earth, seeking help from Superman to deal with a threat facing the entire galaxy -- the threat of Imperiex.
Superman begins special training with Mongul while Jimmy discovers a photograph of Superman wearing a wedding band.
Superman confides in Jimmy that he is actually married -LRB- though he does not say to whom -RRB- before going off into space with Mongul to battle Imperiex at Jupiter.
The two succeed in destroying the construct Imperiex was building to destroy the Sol system.
Predictably, Mongul then turns on Superman, but he had expected this and had a contingency in place.
Superman turns Mongul over to Lobo before flying home to Lois -- but unknown to him, the being defeated was not the true Imperiex, but merely one of his thousands of drones.
Superman # 151-153
As Clark Kent begins his job as a correspondent, a beautiful new villain named La Encantadora leads Superman on an around the world chase as she sells fake Kryptonite to villains all over the globe.
Superman manages to capture her, but not before she delivers a kiss that is more than a simple sign of affection.
La Encantadora escapes and encounters Superman again in Metropolis on Christmas Eve when the Demon, Etrigan steals her power.
After Superman helps her, she expresses regret over their last encounter before escaping again.
Action Comics # 760, 762 Superman and Wonder Woman are transported to an alternate dimension, forced to fight in a battle with the Norse gods against an army of demons for one thousand years.
Even after a thousand years, when they were facing certain death and had no idea if they would ever get home, Superman remained faithful to Lois -LRB- fortunately, after the war was won, Superman was transported to the same day he left -RRB-.
Action Comics # 761
Despite being estranged from his Kryptonian heritage, Superman can not seem to escape its legacy.
The Fortress still lay in ruins, but some of the alien technology was causing strange effect in the Antarctic.
The last surviving Superman Robot alerts Superman to the disturbances, and Superman is able to contain the situation, but not solve it.
While there, Lois recovers a Kryptonian artifact that secretly housed a smaller `` copy '' of the Eradicator software.
The program activates in their apartment, recreating a form of Kem-L who attacks Superman.
Fortunately, Lois is able to help him destroy the artifact, and the program with it.
The Eradicator 's original programming is not completely dead, however, and attempts to reassert control of the actual Eradicator body -LRB- still housing the mind of David Conner -RRB-.
Conner actually loses control briefly and attacks Superman in Metropolis, but is able to regain control.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 95-97
On New Year 's Eve 1999, Lex Luthor plans a spectacular party in Metropolis to usher in the New Year.
Clark, Lois, and the Kents all attend.
Unfortunately, Y2K actually occurs -- all because of the arrival of Brainiac 2.5, who unleashes a computer virus that cripples the world 's computers, leading all the world 's heroes to desperately try to keep the peace as a worldwide blackout ensues.
Superman and Green Lantern have to go into orbit to stop thousands of nuclear missiles launched when the blackout hits.
Brainiac is nearly destroyed when a future version of himself arrives, Brainiac 13.
Superman : Y2K # 1
Brainiac 13 begins to upgrade the entire world into a distant futuristic version of itself while Brainiac 2.5 survives by placing his consciousness into Lena Luthor.
Superman is joined by the Metal Men in fighting Metallo before starting a desperate struggle with Brainiac 13.
Superman # 154 The Eradicator arrives to help Superman, warning him that if the virus reaches the Fortress of Solitude, the remnants of the Eradicator 's programing may be able to utilize it.
Flying to the South Pole, Superman and the Eradicator encounter a monstrous, alternate version of the Eradicator program using the ruins of Superman 's Fortress as a body.
The Eradicator -LRB- David Conner -RRB- merges with the other and flies off into space.
Superman realizes Kryptonian technology is the key to defeating B-13.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 98 Superman is only able to stop B13 by utilizing a Kryptonian battlesuit -- however, while his plan had been to trap B13 in the suit, Lex Luthor made a deal with the supervillain to hand over his daughter -LRB- still housing Brainiac 2.5 's essence -RRB-, allowing B13 to escape into space, in exchange for keeping Metropolis upgraded as the very real City of Tomorrow.
Only Superman is aware of what happens, and angrily confronts Luthor, but Lex merely brushes him off.
Superman vows to find Lena and rescue her -- and to make Luthor pay.
Action Comics # 763 After the crisis, Superman works with Steel to build a brand new Fortress of Solitude, this one inside a tesserect, a pocket dimension.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 100
Superman spends some time in Smallville with his folks, trying to hide the fact that Lois has been acting very cold lately.
No matter what he does, Lois continues to grow distant and even hostile towards him.
Even a vacation to an alien planet where the depth of his love for her is manifested does not help the situation.
The Adventures of Superman # 577-578 A confrontation at home causes Lois to attack him -- knocking him clear out of a window.
Superman realizes then that it is not the real Lois.
A running battle reveals that it is actually the Parasite, whose powers have been altered.
He touched Lois during Y2K, finding out the truth, and had been disguised as her ever since.
He had to keep her alive in order to keep up the disguise, however.
During the battle, Parasite collapses, having contracted through Superman whatever malady had recently been affecting Big Blue.
He dies before he can reveal where Lois is located.
Superman # 155-157
Superman, who had in fact been ill since just after Y2K, begins to grow steadily worse.
He had barely been able to fight when the Joker dropped by trying to kill Lex Luthor.
As he literally begins to glow green from his illness, Superman turns to Batman to track down his missing wife.
Batman is successful, but the weakened Superman collapses just as they find her trapped in a cave.
Action Comics # 765-766
Superman is dying of a kind of Kryptonite based cancer.
The Atom shrinks Steel, Superboy, and Supergirl down and they enter Superman 's body to try and remove the tumor.
Superman # 158 Unfortunately, `` Steel '' turns out to be the Prankster in disguise, but the real John Henry arrives and is able to unmask the fraud.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 102 La Encantadora reveals she was paid to infect Superman with the virus, which she administered through her kiss during their first encounter.
She will not say who paid her, however.
Deathstroke has been hired to eliminate her before she could reveal this, but he is unsuccessful -LRB- although he nearly kills Lois while he 's at it -RRB-.
The operation is successful and Superman is revived and restored to health.
Action Comics # 767 Superman decides to take a trip around the solar system with Green Lantern to ensure that he 's back up to full health -- near Pluto, they discover Maxima and her people meeting up with Grayvan, all of whom are fleeing the coming of Imperiex.
Superman # 159
Mister Mxyzptlk makes his return shortly thereafter, causing his greatest disaster ever when he decides to visit the Joker at the Slab and is tricked into giving Joker 99.9% of his power.
The Joker uses the awesome power of Mxy to remake the entire universe in his own twisted image.
Superman : Emperor Joker # 1 Superman tries to rally the JLA and his other allies in a desperate struggle against the Joker, who is committed to first torturing all of creation and then hoping to destroy it.
He brutally kills Superman 's friends and loved ones before his eyes.
A surreal battle ensues before Superman manages to discover the `` rule '' that lets him defeat the Joker -- the Joker can not exist without Batman.
Everything is put back as it was, with no one really remembering what had happened -LRB- save for Superman -RRB-.
Batman -LRB- who had been horribly tortured by Joker over and over -RRB- still remembers every minute of it at first, but Superman asks the Spectre to transfer the memories into himself.
Superman -LRB- Vol.2 -RRB- # 160-161, The Adventures of Superman # 582-583, Superman : The Man of Steel # 104-105, Action Comics # 769-770
Clark Kent manages to attend the wedding of Lucy Lane and Ron Troupe.
Lucy gives birth to their baby shortly thereafter, with Lois at her side.
Superman, unfortunately, gets drawn into an encounter with Lord Satanus, who is trying to steal the soul of Metropolis itself.
Thorn and Rampage join with Superman to fight Satanus and rescue the soul of a boy named Cary.
They are aided by a mysterious figure named Night Owl.
Superman offers himself as a sacrifice, and Satanus takes him into Hell.
This proves to be a trick, however, as Satanus corrupts the `` soul '' of the city, making all the citizens hostile and bitter towards one another.
Satanus uses Cary to control the Adversary, tormenting Superman 's soul.
When Cary turns on Satanus and Superman realizes what has happened, they both manage to break out of hell, returning to Metropolis and restoring it to normal.
The Adventures of Superman # 585-588
HEADING Imperiex, Brainiac, and President Luthor
Lex Luthor, regarded as a national hero for his perceived role in the Final Night, Y2K and No Man 's Land is elected President of the United States, with Pete Ross as his Vice President.
Superman is very upset over the news.
Batman confronts the President-elect and demands the return of the Kryptonite ring, but Luthor calls his bluff and does not turn it over.
Lana vows to keep Superman 's secret no matter what, and Batman promises Superman that Luthor will be taken down in due time.
Superman : Lex 2000 # 1 Superman broods over the turn of events all the way through the end of the year, although by Christmas he and Lois try to make the best of the situation.
After giving gifts to the members of the JLA, Clark and Lois decide to take a few days off to visit Kandor, just the two of them.
Superman -LRB- Vol.2 -RRB- # 165
Superman, still angry with Batman over the events of Tower of Babel -LRB- see JLA -RRB-, does not seek his aid when Talia Head arrives in Metropolis.
Talia is estranged from her father, Ra 's al Ghul, who is currently weak and sickly beyond any help from the Lazarus Pits.
Ra 's has kidnapped La Encantadora 's younger brother to force her to use her powers.
Ra 's al Ghul is planning on ascending to godhood by merging with an aspect of Gaia, but she rejects him.
Superman is offered godhood, but easily rejects it.
Action Comics # 772-773
Superman encounters a rocket ship in the field near his parent 's house.
The rocket contains a message from Jor-El -- a bizarre message that presents a totally different history of Krypton -LRB- one much closer to the Silver Age version -RRB-, with Jor-El explaining that he made up the harsh, brutal history because he wanted his son to fully embrace his new world.
Superman has trouble reconciling this with everything he knows of Krypton, but Dr. Hamilton tells him that it may be possible to travel through the Phantom Zone back in time to Krypton and find out.
Lois decides to accompany Superman on this adventure.
Meanwhile, President Luthor names most of his new team : Lois 's father, Sam Lane, is appointed Secretary of Defense ; Black Lightning is named Secretary of Education ; Cat Grant is appointed Press Secretary ; and Amanda Waller is appointed Secretary of Meta-Human affairs.
Superman # 166-167 Superman encounters a very different Krypton than the one he ever imagined, but gets along wonderfully with his parents and their pet, Krypto, until all is wrecked by the fanatical General Zod.
Superman and Lois flee back to Earth, accompanied by Krypto, who develops superpowers under Earth 's sun.
Action Comics # 776 Krypto proves a little too much for life in Metropolis, however, and after a fight with Mongul where he almost kills the alien villain, Superman decides to take the dog to the Fortress and have a Super-Robot look after him.
Superman # 170
Superman encounters an ultra violent team of `` heroes '' called the Elite, led by Manchester Black, who believe that the best way to stop the bad guys is to terminate them.
Superman, vastly underpowered compared to their team, forces a confrontation on one of Jupiter 's moons where he is able to defeat them without killing anyone, proving his way is the better way.
Black is taken into custody but swears he 'll have vengeance.
Action Comics # 775
A creature called Kancer goes on a killing spree, revealing itself to have been grown from the Kryptonite tumor extracted from Superman 's body.
Superman 's investigation points to a figure in Pokolistan as being responsible for having La Encantadora poison him and then creating Kancer, so Superman and some allies head there for some answers.
During a pitched battle with Kancer, Faora, and Ignition, Superman is sucker punched by a being known as the `` General '' -- he is hit so hard that his jaw is actually broken.
Action Comics # 777, 779
All signs point to an impending war : a distraught Eradicator returns to Earth ranting of a coming disaster -LRB- and is subdued when Superman fills his head with visions of the `` other '' Krypton -RRB- ; an alien armada shows up at Earth, preparing to make their last stand against Imperiex.
Apokolips itself warps into earth space.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 114-115 President Luthor orders Superman not to attack Darkseid, claiming that they are working together to save the universe.
Superman flies off, back to Pokolistan, for a chat with the General.
A fight occurs between the two, during which the General identifies himself as Zod.
Superman, having flashbacks to his time in the Pocket Universe, refuses to believe that this can be Zod.
Their fight is cut short when a massive energy beam levels Topeka, Kansas.
Action Comics # 780 Superman discovers an Imperiex probe in Kansas and manages to destroy it... but finds his home destroyed and his parents missing.
The JLA alert him that he is needed in orbit and he takes off.
Superman # 172 The Justice League rallies in space, but are taken down one by one by the onslaught of Imperiex probes.
Superman watches several of his friends fall and also witnesses the apparent destruction of Atlantis.
JLA : Our Worlds At War # 1 As a desperate battle is joined -LRB- where every team from the JSA to Young Justice takes up the fight -RRB- Superman travels to the Watchtower where he learns that Luthor sent the Suicide Squad to revive Doomsday.
They were successful, although Doomsday trashed the team and seemingly killed Steel.
After finding the ruins of the Watchtower and convincing Black Racer to spare John Henry, Superman then fights side by side with Doomsday, each destroying dozens of probes before the real Imperiex Prime arrives.
The Adventures of Superman # 594 With battles raging across the Earth, Superman witnesses what he thinks is Wonder Woman falling to the deadly onslaught.
Going to her side, he is unavailable to fight off one of the probes at the White House, which results in the death of Sam Lane.
Wonder Woman did not die, but rather it was her mother, Hippolyta, who was struck down after donning Diana 's armor.
Action Comics # 781 Luthor and the Allies come up with one desperate plan : to merge a specially prepared Strange Visitor with Superman and assault Imperiex Prime himself.
The plan is successful -- Imperiex is seemingly destroyed -LRB- although Strange Visitor dies in the effort -RRB- but just then Warworld -- under the command of Brainiac 13 -- arrives and absorbs the energy of Imperiex.
He then causes LexCorp tower to fire on Apokolips, causing Darkseid to believe that Earth has betrayed him.
He orders an invasion of his own.
Superman # 173 Superman, distraught over all the death and destruction, flies into the sun, becoming super-charged.
He attacks Warworld itself, and learns that Imperiex is still alive, his energy being contained in Warworld and if it is released, the universe will be destroyed.
Superman formulates a plan : using Darkseid, Wonder Woman, Tempest, Steel, and others, the Allies are able to boom tube Warworld to the beginning of time.
Action Comics # 782 The War is won, but at a high price with so many missing or dead, and so much destruction all over earth.
-LRB- See Our Worlds At War !
for more details about the conflict -RRB-.
Superman adopts a modified costume, one with a black background on his S-shield -LRB- instead of a yellow one -RRB- and a black S on the cape.
Thankfully, his parents turn up alive and well, first his mother and then his father, although his father seemed to be suffering some memory lapses.
Superman # 174-175
Superman is put through a trial for his part in the Impereix War -- a trial with the Quintessence as the judges, the Linear Men prosecuting, and the Spectre -LRB- Hal Jordan -RRB- representing Superman.
The Linear Men say that Superman is too disruptive -- having upset the intended `` rebirth '' of the universe, time will now progress completely unpredictably.
The judges declare that is how it should be, that the true age of mortals has begun, and dismiss Superman from the hearing over the Linear Men 's strongest objections.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 118
The world slowly begins to rebuild, with Superman taking a minor role, though the rebuilding is soon interrupted by the Joker 's Last Laugh, an even bigger crossover that ran through virtually every DC title for December 2001.
Among other threats, Superman would have to battle a `` Jokerized '' version of the Eradicator, Green Lantern, and Doomsday, the latter of which had now evolved to sentience.
Superman defeated Doomsday again, this time on the grounds of the White House, telling the self-aware monster that he would never again be afraid of him.
Superman # 175
HEADING Never Ending Battle
On the advice of the Martian Manhunter, Superman begins to have some therapy sessions with Dr. Claire Foster.
The new Zod is weighing heavily on his mind, and he is concerned about his parents and Lois.
Superman # 176 Zod is weighing heavily on his mind.
Superman is afraid of him -- not just his power, but he is afraid of Zod 's cunning.
When Clark Kent is assigned to Pokolistan, he is afraid to go.
He is afraid that Zod will recognize him and then Lois and his parents will be in danger.
Nevertheless, when he finds Zod using Bizarro Superman as his punching bag, he is forced to intervene.
Action Comics # 797 Superman helps his parents open up a new general store in downtown Smallville.
Meanwhile, President Luthor deduces that Clark Kent is Superman.
Superman # 178 Bizarro nearly exposes the truth as well, when Manchester Black uses his powers to temporarily switch the minds of Superman and Bizarro into the other 's bodies.
J' onn J' onnz learns that this Bizarro, like Gorgeous Gilly and Scorch, was saved by Mxyzptlk from the Joker universe.
J' onn also learns that Ignition also survived the trip, although he was apparently not created by Emperor Joker, and Bizarro has been used by Zod these past months to prepare for a fight against Superman.
After Bizarro and Superman are switched back, Bizarro hints that Zod may look like Superman himself.
Superman # 181
Luthor is not the only one to learn his identity -- the creature Kancer does as well, but thankfully he sacrifices himself before he can alert General Zod as to what he knows.
During this adventure, Superman learns that Guy Gardner was not killed in the War as was previously thought, and manages to rescue him from some trouble.
Action Comics # 789-790
Lois Lane uncovers proof that Luthor knew about the impending Imperiex invasion long before anyone else -LRB- which means he could have called for evacuations and saved more lives -RRB- but Luthor, per their deal, orders her to bury the story.
Instead, Lois gives the story to Clark and he writes it.
Luthor denies the allegations, and a mind scan by Martian Manhunter seems to prove his innocence.
Clark is apparently fired over the incident, but secretly Perry keeps him on staff in order to secretly investigate Luthor.
Superman # 182-183
Superman is approached by a pantheon of ancient gods who want Superman to bolster their ranks.
Not surprisingly, Superman refuses, but on the other side of Metropolis, Lois is transformed into a goddess by the same group, hoping this will convince Superman to join.
Lois is tempted to use her new power to raise her dad from the dead, but a heartfelt talk with Wonder Woman helps her decide against it and surrender her power.
Superman defeats the evil gods with some help from Zeus, who demands Superman never bring up the name Rao -LRB- a Kryptonian god -RRB- in his presence.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 126-127
A strange baby with super powers is born in Metropolis.
Superman, upon getting ahold of the baby, takes him to the Fortress of Solitude for some testing.
Unfortunately, he is attacked there by Ultraman, Superwoman, and Owlman, who have come to destroy the baby.
During the fight, it quickly becomes apparent -LRB- mostly when the baby speaks -RRB- that he is the new host for Brainiac.
While Superman and Kelex fight the others, Brainiac manages to take control of the Fortress itself.
He brings the entire Fortress to the skies of Metropolis and begins expanding it to huge proportions, threatening the world itself.
Owlman manages to trick Brainiac into fleeing to the Phantom Zone, however, and Superwoman goes after and smothers the baby, stopping Brainiac.
The three villains return to their own time and Superman returns the Fortress to its proper place.
The Adventures of Superman # 603-605
Superman also makes a return trip to `` Krypton '' via the Phantom Zone, only know he learns the truth -- it is merely an illusion created by Brainiac 13 intended to trap Superman there.
Nevertheless, Superman felt a real connection with his father and mother in a way that he really had n't before.
The phantom Krypton had been based on a historical era that Jor-El had admired.
Superman felt better about Krypton as a whole, too, as he had previously been feeling more estranged from it than ever.
Also, Krypto was still present on the Earth.
Superman # 184, The Adventures of Superman # 606, Superman : The Man of Steel # 128, Action Comics # 791
When Green Arrow -LRB- Oliver Queen -RRB- returns to life, Superman meets him on the Watchtower with the rest of the JLA.
Afterwards, Ollie has Clark meet him at a secluded spot in the wilderness where his grave had been.
Clark tells Ollie that Perry White managed to buy all the photos someone managed to take of Ollie 's funeral.
He hands them over to Queen, who can account for everyone in the pictures except one face.
Superman does not know who it is either, and he parts with Ollie to help with an earthquake.
Green Arrow -LRB- Vol.2 -RRB- # 4, 16
After a disastrous stint as the super of Calvin Gardens in Metropolis leaves Superboy -LRB- Kon-El -RRB- homeless, Superman offers to let his `` cousin '' stay with the Kents in Smallville for a time.
Superboy -LRB- Vol.4 -RRB- # 100
Manchester Black then returns, orchestrating an event known as Ending Battle.
Using his vast mind powers, Black manages to control\/convince an entire legion of super-villains to attack Superman -- starting with everyone he cares about.
Before it 's over, Superman has to engage virtually every enemy he has, all while desperately trying to save all his friends and family.
Superman has Lois rally most of his friends and family at Steelworks, but she herself slips out and is cornered by Black at their apartment.
Superman also learns that Lex Luthor knows his secret identity.
In the end, Black makes Superman think that Lois has been murdered in an attempt to force Superman to kill Black -LRB- and thereby prove Superman is no better than he is -RRB-.
Black fails, however, for even in his grief Superman refuses to kill him -LRB- although he is seriously tempted -RRB-.
Black 's ruse is then up, revealing Lois is alive.
Before Black kills himself, he removes the knowledge that Clark Kent is Superman from Luthor 's mind and files.
Superman restores his original, red-and-yellow S-shield.
Superman # 186-187 ; The Adventures of Superman # 608-609 ; Superman : The Man of Steel # 130-131 ; Action Comics # 795-796
While Clark 's investigation of Luthor begins to border on obsession, Steel dons the Entropy Aegis from Our Worlds at War !
and disappears.
Superman : The Man of Steel # 134 Recruiting a team of all Kryptonian heroes -LRB- including the pre-Crisis Kara Zor-El, who has arrived from the past for a brief visit, Superman leads an assault on Apokolips.
He challenges Darkseid to a one-on-one battle for the life of John Henry Irons.
While they fight, the rest of the team battle Darkseid 's forces on Apokolips.
Doomsday, handed over to Darkseid after the events of Last Laugh, joins the fray as well, but he is stopped by Steel.
Superman defeats Darkseid and everyone returns home alive and well.
Superman\/Darkseid : Apokolips Now !
HEADING War with Zod and the Battle for the Future
Clark Kent has an interview with a famous novelist, Ben Conrad.
Somehow, a character from Conrad 's stories -LRB- a nod to the Golden Age Superman -RRB- has come to life and is running amok.
Conrad erases the character by deleting his story... but he has another manuscript entitled The Hollow Men.
Shortly thereafter, Batman alerted Superman to an old government experiment that had apparently been running for the past fifty years in Columbus, Ohio.
Superman found a tesserect and inside, Heroville, a community of all super beings that had been developed in the wake of WWII.
When the JSA resigned, however, the director of the project, Christopher Camel, destroyed all records of its existence and hid the project.
For the next half century it remained hidden.
While Superman was investigating, someone was attacking several heroes -LRB- the Ray, the Elongated Man -RRB- leaving them as still as statues and black and white.
When Superman returned and discovered them this way, he traced the problem back to Heroville.
In the mere hours he had been gone, someone had attacked the village too.
The culprits were a trio of colorless men in suits who surrounded a victim and reduced them to their vegetative state.
Camel saved Superman from suffering the same fate as Ray and Ralph.
Superman realized that the three were characters from Conrad 's book -- they were the Hollow Men, dedicated to preserving the perfect 50 's era exactly as it was, and in the story they succeeded !
Superman sent one of the children to Conrad to alert him of what was happening, and Conrad wrote a new ending where the the Hollow Men destroyed themselves, realizing they had outlived their usefulness.
The Adventures of Superman # 612, 614-616
The final conflict with General Zod finally occurs.
After meta-humans begin to pop up all over the country, General Zod approaches in a feigned gesture of peace, implicating a foreign nation as responsible.
He reveals himself at last -- he looks just like Superman.
He announces a plot to change the sun from yellow to red -- a plot that seemingly succeeds, which of course he is really responsible for, as his suit really transfered yellow sunlight to red and made him as strong as Superman.
With the sun red, he no longer requires the suit, and after taking down a depowered Superman, he masquerades as Big Blue and seizes control of a secret U.S. facility, forcing President Luthor to flee.
As most of the Justice League and other heroes are rounded up -LRB- as Zod 's plan also involved a way of inhibiting the powers of most of Earth 's heroes -RRB-, Superman and Luthor join together with an army of villains from the orbiting prison facility.
Luthor makes it clear to Superman that he blames Big Blue for his recent mind wipe and that it served to only reaffirm his hatred for the Man of Steel.
While Superman takes on Zod, Luthor manages to work with Metallo and return the sun to its proper color.
Zod tries to get Superman to kill him, but Superman refuses.
As the sun turns yellow, restoring Superman to full power, Zod charges full on.
His powers fade as he connects, so he is fatally injured and dies shortly thereafter.
The day is won, but with his dying breath Zod is unrepentant, mocking Superman about how they share the same face.
Action Comics # 801-805
A new Supergirl named Cir-El, who claims to be the daughter of Superman and Lois from the future, arrives and helps Superman battle a nuclear powered villain called Radion.
She claims to have been sent back in time by a group called the Futuresmiths.
Lois is already feeling conflicted over the possibility of Cir-El being her daughter, but she is angry when she learns that Clark has secretly been working with Perry for months to try and bring down Luthor.
Superman breaks into LexCorp, where he finds Hope a prisoner -LRB- and having been badly tortured -RRB- and rescues her.
Perry openly hired him back, just as Lois announces she is quitting to work for Channel 3 News.
Superman # 192-194
Superman is nearly killed by Gaki, now Byakko a vengeful wraith-like being who stabs Superman in the chest.
Barely conscious, he escapes and encounters Girl 13, who takes him to Lana Lang 's new apartment in Metropolis.
Girl 13 is under the impression Lana is Superman 's girlfriend.
They are quickly joined by Natasha Irons, controlling a giant robotic body -LRB- a la the `` new '' Steel, although it can change sizes -RRB-, and Cir-El.
Byakko and her gang of ninjas attack the group, but Girl 13 and Natasha are able to briefly hold them at bay.
Byakko wants revenge against Superman for the death of her husband, Gunshin, who was murdered by Kojiro.
The girls get Superman to the Fortress of Solitude, but Byakko follows them there.
She maintains the upper hand until she stumbles across a room in the Fortress where thousands of letters sent to Superman are kept -- many loving him, many hating him.
She leaves voluntarily.
Superman is completely healed and thanks the girls for their help.
Action Comics # 806-808
She turns out to be a ploy of theirs.
They also infect Superman with a Kryptonian virus which nearly kills him.
Cured of the virus, he must take the fight into the future, which involves a battle with Brainiac 12 -LRB- the precursor to Brainiac 13 -RRB- and the Futuresmiths -RRB- resulting in Metropolis being restored to its former, present day condition.
Also, when Superman returns through the time stream, he ends up in a different timeline, one based on Superman : Birthright.
Superman # 195-201 While this is the technical change to his new origin, it is not made official until Infinite Crisis.
HEADING Godfall and Hidden Enemies
For Tomorrow by Brian Azzarello : Superman befriends a priest named Daniel and explains a story of his own pride.
One day, after being called out into space to help Green Lantern, Superman returns to find one million people missing from Earth -- including Lois.
Superman refers to this event as the `` Vanishing '' and says that it originated in the Middle East.
Flying there, Superman found a city in the midst of a civil war.
A man named General Nox and his henchman, Equus, are responsible for the civil war.
Superman battles Equus and discovers the machine responsible for the Vanishing.
Equus activates the machine, and along with himself, General Nox and another three thousand people disappear.
A man claiming to work for the government, Mr. Orr, demands that Superman turn over the device, but refuses.
After a short chat with the Justice League, Superman heads back to Metropolis to fight off a giant water based monster.
The water monster is soon joined by three others -LRB- each based upon an element -RRB- and attempt to get Superman to leave the planet.
After bluffing that he will destroy the planet if they carry through their threat to wipe out all human life, the elementals disband.
Superman takes Fr.
Daniel to the Fortress of Solitude, even as Wonder Woman heads there to stop Superman.
Wonder Woman seeks to prevent Superman from activating the Vanishing machine, thinking it will be the equivalent of suicide.
As Fr.
Daniel is taken back by Orr and treated for cancer, Superman activates the machine and disappears.
Superman realizes that the Vanishing was caused by a device he originally created should anything ever happen to earth -- it created a `` perfect '' city inside a pocket of the Phantom Zone and would teleport some people there -LRB- including Lois -RRB-.
Superman finds Lois and the others living in a city there -- but the city is under siege by Equus and his new master, an all new General Zod.
Zod had managed to activate the device to draw Superman there.
After a battle with Zod involving Fr.
Daniel -LRB- who has been turned into a Borg thanks to Orr -RRB-, Superman manages to return everyone lost in the Vanishing back to Earth.
Superman builds a new Fortress of Solitude in the Amazon Jungle.
Superman # 204-215
Chuck Austen became the lead writer for `` Action '' starting with issue 814.
While his storylines received mixed reviews, he received some sharp criticism for the way he portrayed Superman, which many felt was too much like Spider-man than the Man of Steel.
Clark resumed his job at the Daily Planet -- but had suffered a demotion.
Jack Ryder was his replacement.
Clark was angry at Lois, for she had known about it beforehand and did not tell him.
Trouble was brewing for Superman, however.
Darkseid dropped by Metropolis, announcing that Doomsday had escaped his custody and was presumably back on Earth.
Over in Smallville, Gog shows up and attacks Superboy and some of his friends, hoping to draw Superman 's attention.
It worked, and Superman showed up to battle Gog -LRB- and seemingly did not recognize him -RRB-.
After a massive brawl, Gog manages to inject Superman with some liquid Kryptonite, nearly killing him.
Superboy manages to take him to STAR Labs for treatment.
When word of his injuries gets out, STAR is attacked by several villains, causing Wonder Woman, Superboy, and other heroes to defend the injured Superman.
Supes is cured but still weak, so he is promptly injured again by Weapons Master.
He and his allies manage to turn the tide, however, before he collapses again from his injuries.
Lana helped him as he slowly recovered -LRB- Lois being overseas at this time -RRB- and she told him she was divorcing Pete because she had settled for him and that Lois settled for Clark but really loved Superman.
Action Comics # 814-819
Clark is visiting his parents in Smallville when he learns Sue Dibney, wife of the Elongated Man, has been murdered.
Superman attends her funeral in Central City before getting to work at helping tracking down her killer.
Like most of the other superheroes, he is shaken at the murder.
Sue was killed in her home, a place covered with League certified alarm systems.
When one group goes after Doctor Light and is taken down by him and Deathstroke, Superman arrives afterwards wondering what prompted the team to go after light in the first place -LRB- though they do not disclose everything they know -RRB-.
When The Atom 's wife, Jean Lorring, is nearly hanged, Superman is the first on scene and identifies the knot used, though it ends up being a red herring.
After the attack on Lorring, someone sends a note to Lois hinting she will be next -LRB- and that the killer knows who her husband is -RRB-.
No attack comes, however, as it was merely a ruse while Jack Drake ends up being the real next victim.
Superman 's role in tracking down the killer is minor, though he does assist in bringing down Deadshot and some other thugs.
Identity Crisis # 1-7 See Identity Crisis for more details on this event.
HEADING Fractures and Ruin
Greg Rucka took the helm of `` Adventures '' with issue 627.
Per his demotion, Clark is assigned to `` the Shack, '' working a graveyard shift covering the Special Crimes Unit.
He meets the new S.C.U. team leader, Lupe, who makes it clear that she thinks of Superman as one of her deputies.
On his first night out Superman has to turn up and battle Replikon, who does not seem totally in control of himself, and once defeated the Replikon auto-destructs.
Meanwhile, Lois gets herself assigned to cover a U.S. led invasion of Umec.
She and Clark spend a last night together before she goes overseas -LRB- and before she goes, she asks Wonder Woman to check on Clark if she ends up being gone too long -RRB-.
With the help of Green Lantern, Superman investigates Replikon and finds one of his children murdered and another missing.
The child turns up as a new Replikon, being controlled by an unknown party, and although Superman manages to defeat him, Replikon 's weapons are shown to interfere with Superman 's powers.
Going over to Lupe 's house to discuss the situation, the lieutenant unabashedly tries to hit on him.
Replikon then turns up with the villain manipulating him, Ruin, as they take hostages and force a confrontation with Superman.
During the battle, Clark is teleported to the 5th dimension by Mister Mxyzptlk, who warns him about an impending doom and that he should be sure to look after Lois.
Mxy then teleports Superman back to the exact instant he left, where Ruin 's beam manages to drain Superman 's power.
Superman manages to free Replikon from Ruin 's control, and subsequently manages to capture Ruin, who is turned over to the S.C.U. -LRB- although he escapes, murdering several officers, before his identity can be revealed -RRB-.
In Umec, Lois and the squad she is assigned to cover get trapped in a war zone and a sniper shoots her in the chest.
Superman is there a moment later -- to catch her as she falls from the injury.
He flies her to the nearest medical encampment, where he waits while she undergoes hours of surgery.
Luckily, the Justice League becomes aware of the situation, and Flash, Green Lantern, and Martian Manhunter get to work.
Once Lois is stabilized, the JLA teleport her to the Watchtower where Doctor Mid-nite works on her further.
Clark stays at his wife 's side after the surgery.
Lois recovers at home for a couple of months, surrounded by friends and family.
Ruin, meanwhile, has transformed a brother and sister whom he had held as hostage into new version of the Parasite.
The twins attack Lois at home, where Mxyzptlk tries to intervene, but is unsuccessful.
Superman borrows a suit of armor from Steel to confront the pair, who are recklessly endangering lives.
Lupe is desperate to stop them, and find Ruin, who murdered some of her crew.
Superman learns Ruin 's location and flies off alone to face him.
Ruin manages to best Superman with lamps that use red sunlight and escapes for a meeting with Lex Luthor, who tells him to start spilling blood.
The Adventures of Superman # 627-636
Tension had been growing between Lois and Lana, which nearly boils over while Clark and Lois visit the Kent farm.
A fight breaks out when a Repo Man -LRB- literally, a man who is there to repossess Pa 's truck, despite his protests that he made every payment -RRB- suddenly grows super-strong and attacks Superman and Superboy.
Repo Man 's powers suddenly fade away, and Superman knocks him out.
Repo had made comments about getting his powers from a `` strange white haired guy '' who also apparently gave him a chunk of kryptonite.
Superman, apparently aging somehow, heads to the local S.T.A.R. to have himself checked out.
He was apparently poisoned by the liquid K injected in him by Gog.
After going to the Watchtower, a visibly aged Superman has to battle Preus, who has captured J' onn J' onzz and Jimmy Olsen.
Superman is able to defeat him, but collapses from the effort.
Gog arrives -- not just a single Gog, but many of them.
Gog explains that he was a young boy whose family and home was destroyed when Imperiex leveled Topeka -LRB- making him similar, yet distinct from The Kingdom 's Gog.
Becoming a master of time, he had tried for two centuries to save his family, but when that failed, he decided to kill Superman for letting it happen.
Realizing that he could not do it himself, he recruited an army of himself from different points in time.
The dozens of Gogs overwhelm Superman, but then Doomsday arrives and declares that no one will kill Superman but him.
Gog successfully fights off Doomsday and apparently kills Superman.
Cut to the future, where for centuries, Gog has Superman in chains, while a reformed Doomsday lead a a League of Supermen -LRB- heroes inspired by the Man of Steel -RRB- in a neverending battle against Gog.
In the end, Superman 's nobility wins over Gog, and he travels back in time with the future Doomsday to set things to right, stopping the battle before he can win it and healing Superman.
Before the future Gog and Doomsday disappear, they warn Superman about an upcoming crisis.
Action Comics # 821-825
Superman flies to the Fortress of Solitude for a meeting with Batman and Wonder Woman, where he confesses that he knew what the League had done to Doctor Light -LRB- per Identity Crisis -RRB- and Diana speculates that the only way to stop Ruin may be to kill him.
Batman theorizes that Ruin must be someone who knows Superman 's identity and hates him very much.
Lois, meanwhile, believes that she was hot in Umec just to get Superman to come and stop the war and begins to investigate who would be behind such manipulation.
Ruin shows up at the Shack and attacks Jimmy Olsen and the S.C.U. but Superman manages to save them -- but Ruin teleports away before he can be unmasked.
Clark gets two surprises that same day : the first is from Pete Ross, who wants him to talk to Lana and the other is from Lois, who announces she thinks they should have a baby.
While they are discussing it, Mxy shows up and shows them a possible future involving a child, before repeating his warning about an upcoming crisis.
Clark tries to talk to Lana about stopping her divorce, but she is not interested in listening to it.
Ruin then shows up at Steelworks and attacks both John Henry and Natasha, but Superman again is on scene and this time manages to unmask the villain -- the world is shocked to find it is none other than Pete Ross !
Thrown in jail, Pete is beaten by Lupe, who lies to Superman when he shows up and says that he was trying to escape.
Talking to Pete alone, Superman learns that Pete knows Superman 's secret identity -LRB- having learned from Lex while he was president and before he `` forgot '' -RRB- and that he has been set up.
Superman vows to prove Pete 's innocence.
The prison then suffers a power outage, resulting in the twin Parasites being freed -- but then they are attacked by an Omac Unit.
When the dust clears, one of the twins is dead and the other missing -- and so is Pete Ross.
The Adventures of Superman # 633-641
As a tie-in with the OMAC Project, there was a four-part storyline entitled `` Sacrifice. ''
Superman discovers Brainiac manipulating Lois -- or so he thinks.
After a battle with Brainiac in the Fortress of Solitude, Superman discovers blood on his hands : then the JLA and the JSA turn up, ordering him to surrender himself for what he has done.
Superman # 219 Superman tries to remember what happened, but instead of a battle with Brainiac, this time he recalls a fight with Darkseid.
The JLA concede that it seems like Superman is being manipulated.
When he asks whose blood is on his hands, the team takes him to the Watchtower and show him the badly beaten body of the Batman.
Action Coimics # 829 The League determines that Maxwell Lord is responsible for manipulating Superman with the false memories, but before they can put Superman in a transporter tube, Max begins his manipulations anew and compels Superman to flee the Watchtower, with Wonder Woman hot on his heels.
The Adventures of Superman # 642 Superman, believing that he has just seen Doomsday murder his wife, attacks Diana with all his might.
Diana puts up a desperate defense, but is clearly outmatched by Superman pulling out all the stops.
She manages to stun him, however, and wrapping Lord up in her Lasso of Truth, demands to know how to free the Man of Steel from his control.
Max replies the only way to do so is to kill him -LRB- Lord -RRB-.
Diana snaps Max 's neck -- an event recorded by the Brother Eye satellite and broadcast around the world.
Superman is freed -- but at a terrible price.
Wonder Woman -LRB- Vol.2 -RRB- # 219
Superman is called away from the scene to deal with a nuclear missile.
After pitching it into space, he has to fight off two OMACs and discovers that they are really people inside the metal suits.
He flies to the Batcave to talk to Batman about what has happened, but Batman is not interested.
Superman returns to Metropolis, where even Lois agrees with what Diana did.
Superman ca n't help but think of everything that 's happened, particularly the events of `` Crisis of Conscience '' in JLA, so he goes to see Zatanna.
She tells him that she altered the Toyman, and together they find him, locked in his own fantasy world.
Zatanna clears his delusion just before he apparently dies in a collapsing building.
In Metropolis, the world is unsure of how to react to the tape of Wonder Woman killing Lord.
Lois goes to Umec to figure out who was behind the hit on her and deduces that it must have been Lord himself.
Lex Luthor shows up at the Daily Planet, trying to get information on Ruin.
Ruin himself then shows up for a fight, teleporting all throughout the battle.
Superman realizes he is using the Phantom Zone to teleport.
Before he can unmask Ruin again, the villain flees.
Superman responds to his JLA alert, flying to the Watchtower -- only to find it in ruins.
The Adventures of Superman # 643-645
HEADING Infinite Crisis
Shifting through the ruins of the Watchtower, Superman can find no trace of J' onn J' onzz.
Wonder Woman and Batman both turn up.
Batman coldly tells Diana to leave, that she has no business there after killing Lord.
They are interrupted by Mongul, and they are so fractured that they barely are able to take him down.
Afterwards, Batman tells Superman how the whole world is afraid of them because of Wonder Woman, and that the last time he truly inspired anyone is when he died.
All three go their separate ways.
Infinite Crisis # 1
Coming back to Metropolis, Superman finds Mister Mxyzptlk in the form of an old man lying in the gutter.
Mxy 's magic is not working right -LRB- presumably because of the crisis -RRB- and Clark takes him to a diner to talk.
With some cues from Mxy, Clark begins to piece together who Ruin could really be : a scientist, access to the Phantom Zone, knowledge of red sunlight -- it must by Emil Hamilton.
With Mxy 's help, Superman finds his lair.
It is well guarded, however, and Superman has to contend with red solar lamps.
Mxy sacrifices himself, taking a Kryptonite arrow meant for the Man of Steel.
He whispers his name backwards and disappears.
Superman confronts Ruin -- who is indeed Prof. Hamilton.
Ruin taunts Superman, showing him a scene playing out across town : he has Pete Ross tied up in one of his suits, standing over a machine that will kill Lana Lang and her baby son.
Lupe is at the scene and has a gun aimed at the back of Pete 's head, thinking he is the real Ruin.
Weakened though he is, Superman tears across town to stop it -- but he arrives too late to stop the bullet.
Lupe did not aim for Ross, however, knowing that she was being set up.
Pete and Lana are freed and escape, although Lupe is injured saving them in the process.
Ruin arrives and battles Superman for the last time.
Superman forces him outside, destroying his teleporter and his weapons.
Hamilton reveals that his suit has a bomb that will take out half the city.
Superman rips the suit off him and lets it detonate high in the air.
After Hamilton is taken in, Clark Kent has a talk with Lana and Pete -LRB- now they both know his secret -RRB-, and promises Pete he will clear his name.
The Adventures of Superman # 646-647
Alexander Luthor continues with his machinations to find `` the perfect Earth. ''
In order to keep most of the world distracted, he orders the Secret Society of Super-Villains to drop Chemo over Blüdhaven.
Chemo detonates, killing over 100,000 people instantly, and leaving the city irradiated with poisonous clouds.
Superman arrives, leading a cadre of heroes who can withstand the toxicity to try and rescue who they could.
Chemo began to reform, and Superman engaged, knowing that he would reform quicker, sucking the poison back into himself.
Once it was all gone, Superman hurled Chemo into space.
Infinite Crisis # 4, The Adventures of Superman # 648
As the Crisis continued, Earth-Two was brought back into existence.
Superman heard a scream from that world, and flying there found Kal-L from Earth-Two, standing over the body of Earth-Two Lois Lane, who had just died.
Kal-L blamed Kal-El for her death and attacked her, leading to a brutal fight across the Earth-Two Metropolis.
As they battled, their lives flashed before each other 's eyes in an instant.
The fight was finally stopped when Wonder Woman arrived, grabbing Kal-L in her Lasso.
She and Kal-El helped him see the truth -- that Alexander Luthor was really manipulating the strings.
Infinite Crisis # 5, The Adventures of Superman # 649
Alexander Luthor is stopped from creating his `` perfect universe '' when his tower is destroyed by Kon-El during a battle with Superboy-Prime.
Unfortunately, Kon-El dies of his injuries just before Superman, Kal-L, Wonder Woman, and Batman arrive.
Superman is deeply affected by the loss, but is determined to put an end to the madness that Luthor has created.
Alexander 's machinations have disrupted history, causing some changes to Superman 's history -LRB- see Kal-El -LRB- New Earth -RRB- for details -RRB-.
Nearly every super-villain on the planet converges on Metropolis, desiring to conquer Superman 's home city.
Kal-El and Kal-L lead the charge with the other heroes in their wake.
The first villain they take down is Doomsday himself.
Kal-L confronts Alexander, but he is unrepentant.
Superboy Prime, driven totally insane by this point, decides the only solution is to destroy this universe completely by flying straight through Oa at lightspeed.
J' onn J' onzz, aware of his plan, alerts everyone who can fly to try to stop the insane Prime, but he is too fast.
In deep space, Guy Gardner and a coalition of Green Lanterns manage to stop him long enough for Kal-El and Kal-L to grab him.
Not fast enough to take him back to the speedforce, the two Supermen fly him to Krypton 's solar system -- and straight through its red son.
After they fly through it, they crash on Mogo.
Prime 's suit was destroyed and his powers were failing, but he still managed to beat Kal-L, fatally injuring him.
Kal-El tore the S-shield off Prime 's chest, and managed to knock him out before collapsing -LRB- there was Kryptonite all around them -RRB-.
The Green Lanterns swoop down, obliterating the kryptonite and incarcerating Prime.
Kal-L dies in Power Girl 's arms, and a powerless Superman is taken back to Earth.
Batman and Wonder Woman decide to take some time off.
Superman is not discouraged, however, knowing that his powers will return in time, and in the meanwhile the Earth is in good hands.
Infinite Crisis # 7
Known Powers :
Kryptonian Physiology : Superman 's cellular structure is more dense, resilient and biologically more effective than human tissue.
Strangely enough, he does not seem to possess superhuman strength levels despite his enhanced cellular ability without constant exposure to yellow solar energy.
Without such charging, his strength seems on par for a human of his height and weight who engages in regular physical activity.
As an alien he possess several organs whose functions are not yet disclosed or understood but are believed to be part of and perhaps even the source of his biomatrix force field and reclamation aura.
Superman 's body also stores energy actively within his bio-cellular matrix as an energy pattern that is linked to his body 's electromagnetic field.
This energy powers most of Superman 's electromagnetic capabilities such as flight and heat vision.
It also supplements his physical strength by a factor of 12,000 times or so.
Solar Energy Absorption : Technically, this is the main source of Superman 's powers.
Because Superman 's powers are greatly due to exposure to Earth 's yellow sun, his powers have been affected by extreme absorptions of solar power, whether voluntary or involuntary.
However, Superman has used this to his advantage in battle in many instances, and to his detriment at certain times.
Superhuman Strength : While the exact magnitude of Superman 's strength is unknown, it is generally accepted that his strength easily surpasses the capacity to lift 900,000,000 tons, but how much more is not known exactly.
This is because Superman 's strength, like his other powers, has fluctuated over time.
Technically Superman can augment his super strength to near infinite levels where he is has able to literally move planets from one solar system to another barehanded.
Though he does n't do this for fear of doing harm, but he can become `` supercharged '' and exceed his `` normal '' power levels as evident when his power absorption ability ran amok which needed the Parasite to drain off his excessive power levels.
Currently he only maintains enough strength to do battle without killing, move mountains, but not enough to move planet sized objects on his own.
Invulnerability : Superman 's body is nigh-invulnerable -LRB- Has survived LOW yield nuclear explosions where he was in direct contact with a fourty megaton detonation bomb but was knocked unconscious as a result -RRB-.
This ability 's levels have changed over time, at times allowing him to fly into a sun and emerge unharmed, as evident most recently through Krypton 's red sun and survive.
Has been seen to skirt the photosphere of the sun -LRB- 10,000,000 degrees F -RRB-.
Superman has even been shown withstanding Darkseid 's Omega Effect, a feat that was previously considered impossible.
In addition, his immune system protects him from toxins and diseases.
The most common explanations for his invulnerability are Superman having a super-dense molecular structure and\/or a supercharged bioelectric `` aura '' which acts as an invisible `` force field '' around his body within a few millimeters from his skin, and presumably within his body as well.
The proximity of this field to his skin means that loose clothes, for example, may be burned off of him, while cloth that is close to his body is protected by the `` aura ; '' This phenomenon is sometimes cited as Superman 's reason for wearing a skin-tight bodysuit.
It is sometimes implied that he can unconsciously extend this field to an undetermined extent to protect a greater area, allowing him to carry huge objects within the Earth 's atmosphere and without gravity or inertia tearing them apart around his human-sized hands.
Superhuman Stamina : Superman has the ability to maintain continuous strenuous physical action for an undefined period.
Theoretically, most incarnations of the character has unlimited stamina as his enhanced nourishment is produced from the solar energy his cells process ; however his base physical structure still does need to process food stuffs as well as has the psychological need to eat and drink just as Earth humans do, despite the fact that his superhuman powers receives the majority of that power from a yellow sun.
He does require sleep on occasion so he can dream.
He can also hold his breath for an undefined duration.
Flight : Superman is able to manipulate psionically, graviton particles, in an unknown and apparently unconscious manner, to defy the forces of gravity.
Under one Earth gravity, Utililizing molecular motion, Superman is capable of Mach speeds in excess of Mach 10 in atmosphere.
He has been seen to fly to the moon in minutes so we can assume that he can fly faster than that outside of atmospheric interference.
His control of his flight is perfect and he can perform aerobatic feats such as hovering, flying backwards and even lifting great weights while flying.
Superman has limited ability to fly in outer space.
Superhuman Speed : Superman is capable of enhanced reflex action and the ability to move at incredible speeds by sheer force of will.
He is not quite as fast as the Flash and can not achieve lightspeed under his own power, but can reach a high speed percentage of lightspeed in normal space.
Superman can match most other speedsters in their ability to perform superfast movements, reactions, and processes.
He can use this power to disarm opponents without heightened reflexes, catch bullets or shrapnel or cross vast distances in seconds.
He has been seen flying from the Moon to the Earth in under 2 minutes.
That is the equivalent of 2000 miles per second or 1% the speed of light.
The source of this power remains unexplained.
Super Breath : The ability to create hurricane force winds by blowing, and to chill his breath in order to freeze a target -LRB- this latter ability has also been called `` freeze breath '' and `` arctic breath '' -RRB-.
Superman can also breathe in large amounts of air, an ability used when dealing with and disposing things like clouds of poison gas.
Superhuman Hearing : The ability to hear any sound at any volume or pitch.
The only Earth creature who can detect sounds at the frequency he can is a blue whale -LRB- 0.01-200,000 Hz -RRB-.
He has shown enough control to block out ambient sounds to focus on a specific source\/frequency.
He can identify a person by their heartbeat, or pick out a single voice in an entire city.
Heat Vision : The ability to fire beams of intense heat at a target by looking at it with the conscious act of activating this power.
Visually, the power is typically depicted as two beams of red light firing from his eyes.
These beams can be made invisible, allowing Superman to work undetected.
The maximum temperature of his heat vision is said to be around that of a nuclear detonation.
Can reach tempertures of 11,000 degrees F. The area of effect can be consciously determined by Superman, down to the microscopic level.
Recent stories imply the precision is so exact it can bypass a target 's outer shell -LRB- not causing damage to a person 's skull for surgical purposes -RRB- or even defenses -LRB- such as invulnerability or intangibility -RRB-.
Super Vision : He also possess a superior sensory arrangement of microscopic, telescopic, infrared and ultraviolet visual capabilities.
He is able to see the entire spectrum.
Microscopic, chemical, x-ray, auditory, ultrasonic, magnetic, photonic, etc..
Star Laboratories has not been able to complete define how Superman has been able to utilize his powerful senses, part of the mechanism is physical, part of it is believed to be psionic in nature.
Abilities include :
Electro-magnetic Spectrum Vision : can see well into most of the EM Spectrum.
He can see and identify radio\/television and any and all broadcast\/transmitted frequencies, allowing him to avoid detection through radar or satellite monitoring methods.
Superman can see the paranormal aura that every living thing generates.
This ability is apparently one of the main reasons that Superman is a vegetarian, as he can see the passing of the `` soul '' at death.
Telescopic Vision : The ability to `` zoom in '' his distance to see something at a great distance, without violating the laws of physics.
The total telescopic ability is unprecedented, but limited to some extent.
X-Ray Vision : The ability to see through anything except lead.
He can see things behind a wall as if the wall were not there, or can `` peel back '' layer after layer of matter in his mind.
Opponents sometimes used lead-lined constructs in an attempt to hide things from Superman.
Kal-El is able to focus his vision past layers of matter, literally seeing `` through '' them -- possibly perceiving x-rays, cosmic rays or other forms of energy invisible to normal human vision which pass through Earth 's atmosphere -LRB- and solid objects -RRB- after emission from stars.
Since it is passive, this ability would not generate harmful radiation in the same manner as a focused projection of hard X-rays.
Microscopic Vision : The ability to see extremely small objects and images down to the atomic level -LRB- normal optical microscopes can only see objects down to the size of chromosomes -RRB-.
Infrared Vision : -LRB- he can see in total darkness -RRB-
Chemical Vision
Auditory Vision
Ultrasonic Vision
Magnetic Vision
Photonic Vision
Kryptonian Rage :
HEADING Former Powers
Energy Matrix : The radical mutation that had taken over Kal-El had turned him into an energy based life form that did n't normally exist wholly within this plane of reality.
Energy Form : Superman loses his traditional powers and transforms into a being of electromagnetic energy.
In order to maintain physical cohesion in this form, he needs to wear a containment suit.
Lightning Bolt Travel : ability to travel as a bolt of lightning landing with a jolt when ever he landed.
Alter Density : In this form Superman can become intangible allowing him to phase through solid objects or down to the point where he is a normal human, but in this state he possessed no powers and was no more powerful that the average human male.
Electromagnetic Spectrum Manipulation : allows him the ability to influence all forms of energy allowing him to control magnetism, gravitational forces, radiation and electricity.
Electromagnetic Spectrum Sight : see in vastly expanded and different radiation spectra frequencies of energy.
Electrical Absorption : draw power from electrical sources.
Electrical Blasts
Solid Field : ability to produce a solid field that allowed him to physical interact with objects, he was also able to control the shape and size of his field.
Electronic Link : ability to link with electronic systems such as computers
Electronic Teleportation : travel through systems much like electric current.
Master Combatant : He has been trained by both Wildcat -LRB- in Boxing -RRB-, and Mongul in the fighting arts.
Genius-Level Intellect : Superman has shown enhanced intelligence and computational abilities ; his mind works sharply and with extreme speed.
His analytical powers are impressive -- he is able to use his senses to read information directly from machines -LRB- and, with careful usage of his heat vision, he can even reprogram machines -RRB-.
Lately he has allowed his care for others to obscure his judgement, causing him to be looked down on by the likes of Arion, Batman, and Kal-L.
Magic : Superman 's biomatrix is his most powerful asset, but the strength of this field is also its greatest weakness.
It 's permeability to certain wavelengths makes Superman vulnerable to certain radiations, particularly magical energies whose chaotic electromagnetic or extradimensional signatures disrupt this forcefield.
Superman 's vulnerability to magic varies on the special effects of the magic.
No magic seems to be able to directly destroy him unless it comes from a semi-divine or divine source.
He can be injured and worn down by magical entities.
Magic can have powerful and unpredictable effects on Superman and his magical enemies have often proven to be the most dangerous.
Kryptonite : Since the destruction of Krypton, its remains -LRB- rendered radioactive by the explosion -RRB- have been spreading throughout the universe as kryptonite, a crystalline substance whose specific radiation is lethal to Kryptonians native to this reality.
There is only one type of Kyrptonite Green and its effect is directly poisonous.
Kyrptonite from other realities does NOT effect Kryptonians from different realities as the current Kryptonite did NOT effect Kal-L who originated from the destroyed Classic Earth-Two reality -LRB- Infinite Crisis # 5 -RRB- and the current Superman was not effected by the various Kryptonite samples that originated from the pocket universe.
Kryptonians : On the rare occasions where he has battled other Kryptonians, they seem more easily able to harm one another as well.
Lead : Superman can not see through lead with his vision powers.
Solar Energy : Superman will eventually weaken without replenishing his energy reserves with normal -LRB- yellow -RRB- sun radiation.
He is not replenished by red sunlight, and its radiation can be used to weaken him.
Psionics
The history is an overview of the major plot changes, storylines, crossovers, etc that ran from 1986-2006.
It covers Action Comics 584-836, The Adventures of Superman # 424-649, the full run of Superman # 1-226 and # 1-134 in addition to any relevant tie-in specials and mini-series.
Because DC decided to not completely abandon every bit of pre-Crisis history, and because several older heroes were merged into the new continuity, it was necessary to skip forward after Superman 's immediate reintroduction and the beginning of the regular modern series.
This skip covered a period of about 4-5 years and included the early days of the modern heroes adventures -LRB- every bit of pre-Crisis continuity that still applied -RRB-.
Some of these early adventures were eventually retold or re-imagined -LRB- see and for more details.
No Trivia
Superman # 75 -LRB- January 1993 -RRB- Death of Superman
Action Comics # 689 -LRB- September 1993 -RRB- Superman returns
Superman : Speeding Bullets
Superman : Endgame
Superman : Til Death Do Us Part
Lois Lane
Krypton
Batman
Superman article at the Unofficial Guide to the DC Universe
Superman article at Toonopedia
Superman article at Supermanica
Superman Homepage, a fan site
KryptonSite
Superman at the Guide to the Mythological Universe
Scientists are still discussing how many species there are.
The number of species varies between 100 and 250.
Camellia species are used as food plants by the larvae of a number of Butterflies species.
-- -RRB-
Magnolia could mean :
Skimmed milk -LRB- United Kingdom -RRB-, or skim milk -LRB- United States of America -RRB- is made when all the cream -LRB- also called milkfat -RRB- is removed from whole milk.
It can be in a solid form or in a liquid form.
The liquid form would be in a drink like a hot chocolate or iced chocolate.
White chocolate has little cocoa in it.
It is made of cocoa butter.
Varieties exits that have up to 80-85 percent cocoa in them.
HEADING History
HEADING Construction
HEADING Playing
HEADING Music
It has four strings.
The strings are tuned to the notes G, D, A, and E. It is held between the left collar bone -LRB- near the -RRB- and the chin.
It has no frets or other markers.
Players have to learn the exact place to put the fingers of the left hand by memory.
The violin is the smallest and highest pitched string instrument.
The other string instruments are the viola, the cello and the double bass.
A person who makes or fixes a violin is called a luthier.
The violin played an important part in European music.
No other instrument has played such an important part in Europe.
The violin in its modern form is about 400 years old.
Similar string instruments have been around for almost 1000 years.
By the time the modern orchestra started in the 17th century, the violin was fully developed.
It became the most important orchestral instrument.
It is used as a solo instrument, in chamber music, in orchestral music and in jazz.
It is also used in folk music.
There is even a verb, `` to fiddle ''.
It means, `` to play the fiddle ''.
This word can be used as a nickname for the violin.
It is properly used when talking about folk music.
The word `` violin '' is related to the word `` viol ''.
The violin was not made directly from the instruments called viols.
The word violin comes from the Middle Latin word vitula.
It means stringed instrument.
This word is also believed to be the source of the Germanic `` fiddle ''.
The modern European violin changed over time from many different bowed stringed instruments.
They were brought from the Middle East
Chicago Studies in Ethnomusicology, University of Chicago Press, 1990 Most likely, the first makers of violins took ideas from three kinds of current instruments.
They are the rebec, in use since the 10th century, the Renaissance fiddle, and the lira da braccio.
In the 17th century, there were several families of luthiers who were very good at making instruments.
The most famous violin makers were Stradivarius, Amati, and Guarneri.
Some of the instruments that these luthiers made are still in here today.
They are some of the best instruments in existence.
They can have prices as high as several million dollars.
This acts as a resonating box.
It makes the vibrating strings sound louder.
Many of the parts of the violin are named after parts of the body.
The front is called the `` belly ''.
The back is called the `` back ''.
The sides are the `` ribs ''.
The strings go from near the top of the `` neck '' down the `` fingerboard '' and on to the `` tail piece ''.
The strings go across the bridge halfway between the end of the fingerboard and the tailpiece.
It is held in place by the strings.
The strings keep it in place because they are so tight.
If the strings are completely loosened, the bridge will not stay on.
This is a small piece of wood.
It looks like a small finger.
It goes from the belly to the back.
The soundpost is also held in place by the strings.
They are called `` f holes ''.
This is because of their shape.
The violin can be by turning the pegs.
These are now made of foam.
They have special legs to hold them on to the violin.
They are not very cheap.
Many beginners use a sponge and an elastic band instead.
Strings used to be made of gut.
They are now mostly made of steel or nylon.
The bow can be made of several kinds of wood.
An example would be pernambuco.
In the 17th and 18th centuries, composers wrote a lot of music.
They wrote the music for solo violin.
Many of these composers were from Italy.
They were themselves violinists.
Some of these violinists are Corelli, Vitali, Vivaldi, Veracini, Geminiani, Locatelli and Tartini.
In the Classical music period, the great composers Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven all wrote solo works for the violin.
They also wrote a large amount of chamber music, especially string quartets.
These include concertos by Mendelssohn, Saint-Sa ëns, Brahms, Bruch, Wieniawski, Tchaikovsky, and Dvo ák.
In the 20th century, many virtuoso works were written.
These include Elgar, Sibelius, Szymanowski, Bartók, Stravinsky, Berg, Prokofiev, Shostakovich, Hindemith, and Penderecki.
In the 19th century, Niccolò Paganini was the most famous violinist.
He composed and played violin music that was very hard.
It was harder than anyone had played before.
People compared him to the devil because he could play so and because he looked good.
Many stations have things such as shelters, ticket sales and benches.
A railway track is a track -LRB- or road or way -RRB- that is made with rails.
Another way to say `` railway track '' is railway line.
Sometimes people just say railway.
In America, people say railroad.
They are all the same thing.
For example, one track goes east and the other one goes west.
In most countries, this transportation method helps international trade and economic growth.
Also, the track spreads the weight of the train which means larger amounts can be carried than with trunks and roads.
Sometimes they howl for advertising purposes.
Do not be fooled.
Many wolves are listed on the endangered species list, but as they are notorious fibbers this is not taken very seriously by most people.
Even though many people think that wolves are terrible, mean creatures, they are actually very gentle except when they smell babies.
When they smell babies they swell up to twice their original size, cause sunspots, interfere with electrical equipment -LRB- which they refuse to learn how to use safely -RRB-, and stop at nothing to track the babies down.
This is not good, as if they catch the babies, they always teach them bad words and worse manners.
The main reason wolves get violent is for food or to protect the pack or just for something to do, y ` know.
Many people around the world, most ` specially in Canada and Alaska, have wolves as pets.
Wolves are delicious peeled and served with coleslaw.
Many people enjoyed his music and tried to play the same way as he did.
Bryan Adams -LRB- November 9, 1959 -RRB- is a Canadian rock singer.
He is known for the songs Summer of '69 and -LRB- Everything I Do -RRB- I Do It For You.
He has performed with many other musical artists such as Def Leppard, Tina Turner, Sting, Rod Stewart, Bonnie Raitt, Barbra Streisand, and Melanie C. His best-selling album is Reckless, Waking Up the Neighbours and 18 til I Die.
Bryan Adams -LRB- November 9, 1959 -RRB- is a Canadian rock singer.
He is known for the songs Summer of '69 and -LRB- Everything I Do -RRB- I Do It For You.
He has performed with many other musical artists such as Def Leppard, Tina Turner, Sting, Rod Stewart, Bonnie Raitt, Barbra Streisand, and Melanie C. His best-selling album is Reckless, Waking Up the Neighbours and 18 til I Die.
He has performed with many other musical artists such as Def Leppard, Tina Turner, Sting, Rod Stewart, Bonnie Raitt, Barbra Streisand and Melanie C. His best-selling albums are Reckless, Waking Up the Neighbours and 18 til I Die.
A pilgrimage is when people go to a place of worship that is usually far.
They may have to go do a different city or country.
The capital is Madison, and the city with the most people is Milwaukee.
The nickname of Wisconsin is the Badger State.
It was the 30th state to join the United States, in 1848.
HEADING Neighbors
The states of Minnesota and Iowa are west of Wisconsin, Michigan is to the east and north, and Illinois is to the south.
Lake Superior is also north of Wisconsin, Lake Michigan is to the east, and the Mississippi and St. Croix Rivers are to the west.
HEADING External links
Official Wisconsin website
Amy Grant -LRB- November 25 1960 -RRB- is an American singer, known for her Christian pop music.
It currently leans at about 5.5 degrees.
After the third floor was built in 1178, the tower started to lean, due to a small, only three-meter foundation in soft soil.
The design of this tower was bad from the beginning.
Construction was stopped for almost 100 years because the Pisans were often at war with Genoa, Lucca, and Florence.
This allowed for the underlying soil to settle, otherwise the tower would almost certainly have fallen down.
In 1198 some clocks were temporarily put into the unfinished construction.
Some religions are monotheistic, for instance the three major Abrahamic religions : Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.
That makes it even less fair.
Some people think we should try to make it more fair instead.
Sometimes people get money for strange things.
A person who is good at playing football can make a lot of money.
So people say the person growing food should be paid more.
But they are not.
This can be fuck -LRB- `` financial capital '' -RRB- or any other goods that can be traded.
`` Capital '' originally comes from the Latin word caput, meaning `` fuck '', because it was used to mean how many `` head '' of cattle a wealthy person owned, in days long ago when cattle were used as money.
Some people disagree on whether capitalism is a good idea, or how much of capitalism is a good idea.
Christina Maria Aguilera -LRB- born December 18, 1980 -RRB-, under the stage name Xtina is an American pop singer and song-writer.
Chicken can be eaten in many different ways.
You can eat almost every part of it.
The floppy disk -LRB- or a 3 1/2 floppy for today 's standard -RRB- is a magnetic storage medium mainly used for computers and laptops, but other devices used them as well, like some early Digital Cameras, and even a japanese NES accessory !
A current 3 1/2 inch floppy -LRB- known as 3 1/2 Double-Sided, High-Density floppies -RRB- can take 1.44 megabytes of data.
Special floppies -LRB- known as 3 1/2 Double-Sided, Extended-Density floppies -RRB- were made to hold 2.88 MB of data, but they were not commonly available.
HEADING Childhood
Nat King Cole was born in the southern city of Montgomery, Alabama, in 1919.
HEADING His interest in jazz
Nat played piano in New York City and in Los Angeles, California when he was a young man.
In 1937, he formed a group that played jazz music.
HEADING Well-known popular singer
By the middle 1940s, Nat King Cole was beginning to be known as a popular singer as well as a jazz piano player.
The song became one of the biggest hits of 1943.
It sold more than 500,000 copies.
In 1950, the American film industry gave him an award for his recording of `` Mona Lisa. ''
HEADING Many Success as first black man
By 1956, Nat King Cole was known internationally.
His show began on NBC Television in 1956.
NBC agreed to support The Nat King Cole Show for a while.
Many Americans watched the show, but NBC halted production after a year.
In the 1950s, he sang with some of the best known orchestras of the time.
Here Nat King Cole sings `` When I Fall in Love '' with the Gordon Jenkins orchestra.
HEADING About his family and daughter Natalie
In 1936, he married a dancer, Nadine Robinson.
In 1948, he married Maria Ellington.
He died of cancer of the lung in February, 1965.
One was a 1990 Grammy Award for lifetime achievement.
In 1991, Natalie Cole recorded an album called Unforgettable.
It contains 22 of Nat King Cole 's songs, including the song `` Unforgettable. ''
The article above is a reuse and rewriting of a public domain material from Voice of America Special English website.
The original script is available from script, as public domain under Terms of Use & Privacy Notice of Voice of America.
-- -RRB-
HEADING Last days
George Gershwin died in 1937, just days after doctors learned he had brain cancer.
He was only thirty-eight years old.
Newspapers all over the world reported his death on their front pages.
Everyone mourned the loss of the man and all the music he might have written.
Gershwin is still considered one of America 's greatest composers.
His works still are performed by many singers and groups.
They are probably performed more often than any other serious American composer.
Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg was one of the people who praised George Gershwin.
Schoenberg said Gershwin was a man who lived in music and expressed everything through music, because music was his native language.
Ultraviolet is a color of light that people can not see, but can be recognized by many animals, mostly insects, reptiles, and small birds.
KC & The Sunshine Band was a disco group, that was popular in the 1970s.
A superlative, in grammar, is an adjective describing a noun that is the best example of a given trait.
A superlative, in grammar, is an adjective describing a noun that is the best example of a given quality.
In English, most superlatives can be formed by adding - EST to an existing adjective, like the examples above.
-LRB- For adjectives that end in '' - y '', like `` crazy '', you often change the `` y '' to an `` i '' before you add the - EST on the end. -RRB-
Some adjectives have irregular superlative forms, which do n't follow the rules, such as far -LRB- `` farthest '' -RRB-.
Other adjectives have no superlative form at all, and the superlative is made simply by adding the adverb `` most '' before the adjective.
For instance, you do n't say `` funnest, '' or `` interestingest ''.
Instead, you say `` most fun, '' and `` most interesting. ''
This way of making the superlative is used for almost all adjectives ending in `` ing '' -LRB- like `` interesting '', `` fascinating '', `` disgusting '' or `` appealing ''. -RRB-
Another word for learning difficulties is learning disabilities.
Some people with learning difficulties also find it hard to fit in with society because there are many things that people must know to live in society.
Learning difficulties can be small things.
Sometimes they are bigger problems.
However, people can learn to do things different ways, for example a dificulty with reading and writing -LRB- like dyslexia. -RRB-
They can also be very big things that mean a person needs a lot of help -LRB- like autism -RRB-.
Adults with learning difficulties are sometimes treated badly by other people who think that they are stupid, have mental illness, or even insane.
However some people with learning difficulties can be very clever.
Some scientists and other important people have learning difficulties.
Historians think that some important historical people had learning difficulties, for example, Sir Isaac Newton and Albert Einstein.
People with learning disabilities, also called learning difficulties, are people who find it hard to gain knowledge or understanding.
Some people with learning difficulties also find it hard to fit in with society because there are many things that people must know to live in society.
Learning difficulties can be things that people can learn to live with on their own, for example dyslexia -LRB- a difficulty with reading and writing. -RRB-
They can also be very big things that mean a person needs a lot of help -LRB- like autism -RRB-.
Adults with learning difficulties are sometimes treated badly by other people who think that they are stupid, have mental illness, or even insane.
However they can often deal with their difficulties by doing things in different ways.
Some people with learning difficulties can be very clever.
Historians think that some important historical people had learning difficulties, for example, Sir Isaac Newton.
Adults with learning difficulties are sometimes misunderstood by other people who think that they are stupid or have mental illnesses.
People with learning disabilities, also called Retards, are people who find it hard to gain knowledge or understanding.
It is usally used in gardens.
Its SI derived unit is the siemens per metre, -LRB- A2s3m-3kg-1 -RRB- -LRB- named after Werner von Siemens -RRB- or, more simply, Sm-1.
It is the ratio of the current density to the electric field strength or, in more practical terms, is the electrical conductance measured between opposite faces of a 1-metre cube of the material under test.
Many books, short movies, and videogames have been produced that deal with events that do not happen in the original movies, mainly the rebuilding of the Republic after the Empire 's defeat.
Kansas is one of the states in the United States of America.
It is located about halfway between the Pacific and the Atlantic Ocean.
For example, the Sprint Nextel Corporation, which is one of the largest telephone companies in the United States, has its main offices in Overland Park, Kansas.
He is most famous as being the only bachelor President not to have married.
His niece, Harriet Lane, stood in as First Lady.
This means that Neurobiology is focused on the study of the Nervous System, but uses techniques of Biochemistry, Physiology, Cell biology, Anatomy, Molecular Biology and others.
Neurobiology looks at the brain and the nerve cells thatconnect to form the brain.
Fluid Dynamics is the study of how fluids -LRB- liquids and gases -RRB- move and behave.
Mathematics can describe how fluids move using equations.
Understanding how fluids behave has helped us better understand many things like Aeronautics, Meteorology and Sports Science.
For example, fluid dynamics can be used to study the weather, since clouds and air are both fluids.
Fluid dynamics can also be used to understand how airplanes fly through the air or how ships and submarines move through water.
Computer programs can use the equations of fluid dynamics to simulate moving fluids.
Computers have helped us understand fluid dynamics very much and some people study only how to simulate fluids in a computer.
Studying how fluid dynamics can be simulated in computers is called computational fluid dynamics -LRB- or CFD for short -RRB-.
The mathematical equations that govern fluid flow are simple to think about but very hard to solve.
In most real life cases there is no way to get an solution that can be written down and a computer must be used to calculate the answer instead.
Sometimes this may not apply such as a flow involving a chemical reaction.
The momentum equations are the equations that make it hard to solve problems in fluid dynamics.
There are a number of different versions that include a number of different effects.
The Navier-Stokes equations are momentum equations, and the Euler equations are the Navier-Stokes equations but with viscosity not included.
To solve the equations more information is often needed in the form of an equation of state.
This relates thermodynamic properties -LRB- usually pressure and temperature -RRB- to each other for a specific type of fluid.
An example is the `` Ideal Gas '' equation of state that relates pressure, temperature and density and works well for gases under normal pressures -LRB- like air at atmospheric pressure -RRB-.
The article above is an reuse and rewriting of public domain material, provided by Voice of America Special English Website.
His job was to drive a truck and to take wounded soldiers away from battle.
The Red Cross sent him to Italy.
There, he soon saw the first wounded.
This was when a weapons factory in Milan exploded.
He went close to the fighting to see how he could act in the face of danger.
Soon after healing, the war ended.
Through MSN, people can create an e-mail -LRB- electronic mail -RRB- account -LRB- using MSN Hotmail -RRB-, a blog -LRB- using MSN Spaces -RRB-, a group -LRB- using MSN Groups -RRB- and plenty more.
Many people have come across this site in one way or another because it is the default main page for Internet Explorer.
Because of the big size of the army, the people of Mecca were afraid to fight back.
Abu Sufyan, who was feeling unhappy over the broken truce, went to Muhammad 's camp outside Mecca to ask for forgiveness.
Muhammad did not say that he would forgive him, so he returned back home.
While he was with Muhammad, he changed his religion to Islam by saying the Testimony -LRB- al-Ashaada -RRB- :
Bilal ibn Ribah, a former Ethiopian slave, shouted out loud to the people of Mecca that they were all safe : `` All those who lay down arms are safe.
All those in the house of Abu Sufyan are safe.
All those behind closed doors are safe. ''
Mr. Shelby helped create the special Shelby GT-350 and GT-500 versions of the Mustang beginning in 1965.
Volcanoes in this belt include the Raunbow, Llgachuz, and Itcha ranges, and the Nazko cone.
Mount Meager, 150 km north of Vancouver, British Columbia, is a volcano.
Its most common type of rock is lava that is almost a million years old -LRB- with a thickness in some places over 1 km -RRB-.
The volcano might one day be dangerous to the town of Pemberton, British Columbia, about 50 km away.
In mathematics, a rational number is a number that can be written as a fraction.
Rational numbers are all real, and can be positive or negative.
A number that is not rational is called irrational.
Most of the numbers that people deal with in everyday life are rational.
These include fractions and integers.
HEADING Writing Rational Numbers
HEADING Fraction Form
All rational numbers can be written as a fraction.
Take 1.5 as an example.
This can be written as 1 frac -LCB- 1 -RCB- -LCB- 2 -RCB-, frac -LCB- 3 -RCB- -LCB- 2 -RCB-, or 3\/2.
More examples of fractions that are rational numbers include frac -LCB- 1 -RCB- -LCB- 7 -RCB-, frac -LCB- -8 -RCB- -LCB- 9 -RCB-, and frac -LCB- 2 -RCB- -LCB- 5 -RCB-.
HEADING Terminating Decimals
A decimal is a decimal with a certain number of digits to the right of the decimal point.
Examples include 3.2, 4.075, and -300.12002.
All of these are rational.
HEADING Repeating Decimals
A repeating decimal is a decimal where there are infinitely many digits to the right of the decimal point, but they follow a repeating pattern.
An example of this is frac -LCB- 1 -RCB- -LCB- 3 -RCB-.
As a decimal, it is written as 0.3333333333... The dots tell you that the number 3 repeats.
Sometimes, a group of digits repeats.
An example is frac -LCB- 1 -RCB- -LCB- 11 -RCB-.
As a decimal, it is written as 0.09090909... In this example, the group of digits 09 repeats.
Also, sometimes the digits repeat after another group of digits.
An example is frac -LCB- 1 -RCB- -LCB- 6 -RCB-.
It is written as 0.16666666... In this example, the digit 6 repeats, following the digit 1.
If you try this on your calculator, sometimes it may make a rounding error at the end.
For instance, your calculator may say that frac -LCB- 2 -RCB- -LCB- 3 -RCB- = 0.6666667, even though there is no 7.
It rounds the 6 at the end up to 7.
HEADING Irrational Numbers
The digits after the decimal point in an irrational number do not repeat.
For instance, the first several digits of -LRB- Pi -RRB- are 3.1415926535... The digits do not repeat, and will never repeat, no matter how far you go to the right of the decimal point.
Whenever you add or subtract two rational numbers, you always get another rational number.
Whenever you multiply two rational numbers, you always get another rational number.
Whenever you divide two rational numbers, you always get another rational number, as long as you do n't divide by zero.
Two rational numbers frac -LCB- a -RCB- -LCB- b -RCB- and frac -LCB- c -RCB- -LCB- d -RCB- are equal if ad = bc
HEADING See also
Irrational number
Fraction
Real number
Edgar Cayce -LRB- March 18, 1877 & ndash ; January 3, 1945 -RRB- was known as `` The Sleeping Prophet '' and `` America 's Greatest Mystic ''.
Sometimes the information Cayce gave contradicts modern science.
Cayce would also give information that contradicted many professionals who had devoted their life to a subject matter.
The many Cayce readings would later become commonly known practices of the New Age movement.
Ford made the Model T easy to drive compared to today 's cars since the people he sold his cars to did not know how to drive anything other than a horse.
Some of Volkswagen 's other cars at this time include the Jetta, Passat and Phaeton.
The New Beetle and Golf are two-door coupes as are the Polo and Scooter.
The Touareg -LRB- pronounced TOR-egg -RRB- is an SUV.
The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, or CBC, is a national television and radio company in Canada.
In French, it is called la Sociét&eacute; Radio-Canada -LRB- Radio-Canada or SRC -RRB-.
This morning has brought gloomy peace ;
Diabetes mellitus is a disease where people have high levels of -LRB- too much -RRB- glucose in the blood.
Glucose level in the blood is controlled by several hormones.
If levels are too low this is called ` hypoglycemia. '
They may even appear to have had too much alcohol.
The most important goal in diabetes is to keep a normal blood glucose level.
Sir Victor-Marie Hugo -LRB- -RRB- -LRB- 26 February 1802 -- 22 May 1885 -RRB- was a French poet, playwright, novelist, essayist, visual artist, statesman, human rights activist.
He played an important part in the Romantic movement in France.
Hugo first became famous thanks to his poetry, but also his novels and his Plays.
Les Contemplations and La Légende des siècles are his most famous poetry collections.
Hugo is sometimes thought to be the greatest French poet.
In other contries, his novels Les Misérables and Notre-Dame de Paris -LRB- known in English also as The Hunchback of Notre-Dame -RRB- are his most famous works.
When he was young, he was a conservative royalist.
As he got older he became more liberal and supported republicanism.
His work was about a lot of the political and social problems as well as the artistic of his time.
He is buried in the Panthéon, in Paris.
HEADING Life
Victor Hugo was the son of Joseph Léopold Sigisbert Hugo -LRB- 1773 -- 1828 -RRB- and Sophie Trébuchet -LRB- 1772-1821 -RRB-.
He had two older brothers called Abel Joseph Hugo -LRB- 1798 -- 1855 -RRB- and Eugène Hugo -LRB- 1800 -- 1837 -RRB-.
He was born in 1802, in Besançon -LRB- in the Franche-Comt é region -RRB-.
Hugo lived in France for most of his life.
During the reign of Napoleon III he went into exile.
In 1851, he lived in Belgium, in Brussels.
He moved to Jersey in 1852.
He stayed there until 1855 when he went to live in Guernsey until 1870.
He lived there again in 1872-1873.
From 1859, his exile was by choice.
Some great events marked Hugo 's early childhood.
A few years before his birth, the Bourbon Dynasty was overthrown during the French Revolution.
The First Republic rose and fell and the First French Empire rose under Napoléon Bonaparte.
Napoléon became Emperor two years after Hugo 's birth.
The Bourbon Monarchy was restored When he was 17.
His parents had different political and religious views.
These views would be the two main belligerents fighting for power in France.
Hugo 's father was an officer.
He ranked very high in Napoleon 's army.
He was an atheist republican and considered Napoléon a hero.
His mother was an extreme Catholic Royalist.
As Hugo 's father was an officer, they moved frequently.
Victor Hugo learned much from these travels.
He stayed in Naples and Rome for six months, before going back to Paris.
He was only five at the time, but he remembered the trip well.
Sophie followed her husband to posts in Italy -LRB- where Léopold served as a governor of a province near Naples -RRB- and Spain -LRB- where he took charge of three Spanish provinces -RRB-.
Weary of the constant moving required by military life, and at odds with her unfaithful husband, Sophie separated temporarily from Léopold in 1803 and settled in Paris.
Thereafter she dominated Hugo 's education and upbringing.
As a result, Hugo 's early work in poetry and fiction reflect a passionate devotion to both King and Faith.
It was only later, during the events leading up to France 's 1848 Revolution, that he would begin to rebel against his Catholic Royalist education and instead champion Republicanism and Freethought.
Young Victor fell in love and against his mother 's wishes, became secretly engaged to his childhood friend Adèle Foucher -LRB- 1803-1868 -RRB-.
Unusually close to his mother, he felt free to marry Adèle -LRB- in 1822 -RRB- only after his mother 's death in 1821.
They had their first child Léopold in 1823, but the boy died in infancy.
Hugo 's other children were Léopoldine -LRB- 28 August 1824 -RRB-, Charles -LRB- 4 November 1826 -RRB-, François - Victor -LRB- 28 October 1828 -RRB- and Adèle -LRB- 24 August 1830 -RRB-.
Hugo published his first novel the following year -LRB- Han d'Islande, 1823 -RRB-, and his second three years later -LRB- Bug-Jargal, 1826 -RRB-.
Between 1829 and 1840 he would publish five more volumes of poetry -LRB- Les Orientales, 1829 ; Les Feuilles d'automne, 1831 ; Les Chants du crépuscule, 1835 ; Les Voix intérieures, 1837 ; and Les Rayons et les ombres, 1840 -RRB-, cementing his reputation as one of the greatest elegiac and lyric poets of his time.
Victor Hugo was devastated when his oldest and favorite daughter, Léopoldine, died at age 19 in 1843, shortly after her marriage.
She was drowned in the Seine at Villequier, pulled down by her heavy skirts, when a boat overturned.
Her young husband died trying to save her.
Victor Hugo was traveling with his mistress at the time in the south of France, and learned about Léopoldine 's death from a newspaper as he sat in a cafe.
Victor Hugo, tome 1 : Je suis une force qui va by Max Gallo, pub.
Broché (2001) He describes his shock and grief in his poem À Villequier :
Hélas !
vers le passé tournant un oeil d'envie,
Sans que rien ici-bas puisse m ` en consoler,
Je regarde toujors ce moment de ma vie
Où je l'ai vue ouvrir son aile et s ` envoler !
Je verrai cet instant jusqu ' à ce que je meure,
L'instant, pleurs superflus !
Où je criai : L'enfant que j' avais tout à l'heure,
Quoi donc !
je ne l'ai plus ! '
Alas !
turning an envious eye towards the past,
unconsolable by anything on earth,
I keep looking at that moment of my life
when I saw her open her wings and fly away !
I will see that instant until I die,
that instant -- too much for tears !
when I cried out : `` The child that I had just now --
what !
I do n't have her any more ! ''
He wrote many poems afterwards about his daughter 's life and death, and at least one biographer claims he never completely recovered from it.
His most famous poem is probably Demain, dès l'aube, in which he describes visiting her grave.
HEADING Writings
Like many young writers of his generation, Hugo was profoundly influenced by François - René de Chateaubriand, the famous figure in the literary movement of Romanticism and France 's preëminent literary figure during the early 1800s.
In his youth, Hugo resolved to be `` Chateaubriand or nothing, '' and his life would come to parallel that of his predecessor in many ways.
Like Chateaubriand, Hugo would further the cause of Romanticism, become involved in politics as a champion of Republicanism, and be forced into exile due to his political stances.
The precocious passion and eloquence of Hugo 's early work brought success and fame at an early age.
His first collection of poetry -LRB- Odes et poésies diverses -RRB- was published in 1822, when Hugo was only twenty years old, and earned him a royal pension from Louis XVIII.
Though the poems were admired for their spontaneous fervor and fluency, it was the collection that followed four years later in 1826 -LRB- Odes et Ballades -RRB- that revealed Hugo to be a great poet, a natural master of lyric and creative song.
Victor Hugo 's first mature work of fiction appeared in 1829, and reflected the acute social conscience that would infuse his later work.
Le Dernier jour d'un condamné -LRB- The Last Day of a Condemned Man -RRB- would have a profound influence on later writers such as Albert Camus, Charles Dickens, and Fyodor Dostoevsky.
Claude Gueux, a documentary short story about a real-life murderer who had been executed in France, appeared in 1834, and was later considered by Hugo himself to be a precursor to his great work on social injustice, Les Misérables.
But Hugo 's first full-length novel would be the enormously successful Notre-Dame de Paris -LRB- The Hunchback of Notre Dame -RRB-, which was published in 1831 and quickly translated into other languages across Europe.
One of the effects of the novel was to shame the City of Paris into restoring the much-neglected Cathedral of Notre Dame, which was attracting thousands of tourists who had read the popular novel.
The book also inspired a renewed appreciation for pre-renaissance buildings, which thereafter began to be actively preserved.
Hugo began planning a major novel about social misery and injustice as early as the 1830s, but it would take a full 17 years for Les Misérables, to be realized and finally published in 1862.
The author was acutely aware of the quality of the novel and publication of the work went to the highest bidder.
The Belgian publishing house Lacroix and Verboeckhoven undertook a marketing campaign unusual for the time, issuing press releases about the work a full six months before the launch.
It also initially published only the first part of the novel -LRB- `` Fantine '' -RRB-, which was launched simultaneously in major cities.
Installments of the book sold out within hours, and had enormous impact on French society.
The critical establishment was generally hostile to the novel ; Taine found it insincere, Barbey d'Aurevilly complained of its vulgarity, Flaubert found within it `` neither truth nor greatness, '' the Goncourts lambasted its artificiality, and Baudelaire - despite giving favorable reviews in newspapers - castigated it in private as `` tasteless and inept. ''
Les Misérables proved popular enough with the masses that the issues it highlighted were soon on the agenda of the French National Assembly.
Today the novel remains his most enduringly popular work.
It is popular worldwide, has been adapted for cinema, television and stage shows.
The shortest correspondence in history is between Hugo and his publisher Hurst & Blackett in 1862.
It is said Hugo was on vacation when Les Misérables -LRB- which is over 1200 pages -RRB- was published.
He telegraphed the single-character message ' ? '
to his publisher, who replied with a single ' ! '
Hugo turned away from social\/political issues in his next novel, Les Travailleurs de la Mer -LRB- Toilers of the Sea -RRB-, published in 1866.
Nonetheless, the book was well received, perhaps due to the previous success of Les Misérables.
Dedicated to the channel island of Guernsey where he spent 15 years of exile, Hugo 's depiction of Man 's battle with the sea and the horrible creatures lurking beneath its depths spawned an unusual fad in Paris : Squids.
From squid dishes and exhibitions, to squid hats and parties, Parisians became fascinated by these unusual sea creatures, which at the time were still considered by many to be mythical.
The word used in Guernsey to refer to squid -LRB- pieuvre, also sometimes applied to octopus -RRB- was to enter the French language as a result of its use in the book.
Hugo returned to political and social issues in his next novel, L'Homme Qui Rit -LRB- The Man Who Laughs -RRB-, which was published in 1869 and painted a critical picture of the aristocracy.
However, the novel was not as successful as his previous efforts, and Hugo himself began to comment on the growing distance between himself and literary contemporaries such as Flaubert and Émile Zola, whose realist and naturalist novels were now exceeding the popularity of his own work.
His last novel, Quatre-vingt-treize -LRB- Ninety-Three -RRB-, published in 1874, dealt with a subject that Hugo had previously avoided : the Reign of Terror during the French Revolution.
Though Hugo 's popularity was on the decline at the time of its publication, many now consider Ninety-Three to be a work on par with Hugo 's better-known novels.
HEADING Political life and exile
After three unsuccessful attempts, Hugo was finally elected to the Académie française in 1841, solidifying his position in the world of French arts and letters.
A group of French academiciens, particularly Etienne de Jouy, were fighting against the `` romantic evolution '' and had managed to delay Victor Hugo 's election On the role of E. de Jouy against V. Hugo, see Les aventures militaires, littéraires et autres de Etienne de Jouy de l'Acad émie française by Michel Faul -LRB- Editions Seguier, France, 2009 ISBN 978-2-8404-9556-7 -RRB-.
Thereafter he became increasingly involved in French politics.
He was elevated to the peerage by King Louis-Philippe in 1841 and entered the Higher Chamber as a pair de France, where he spoke against the death penalty and social injustice, and in favor of freedom of the press and self-government for Poland.
However, he was also becoming more supportive of the Republican form of government and, following the 1848 Revolution and the formation of the Second Republic, was elected to the Constitutional Assembly and the Legislative Assembly.
When Louis Napoleon -LRB- Napoleon III -RRB- seized complete power in 1851, establishing an anti-parliamentary constitution, Hugo openly declared him a traitor to France.
He relocated to Brussels, then Jersey, and finally settled with his family on the channel island of Guernsey at Hauteville House, where he would live in exile until 1870.
While in exile, Hugo published his famous political pamphlets against Napoleon III, Napoléon le Petit and Histoire d'un crime.
The pamphlets were banned in France, but nonetheless had a strong impact there.
He also composed or published some of his best work during his period in Guernsey, including Les Misérables, and three widely praised collections of poetry -LRB- Les Châtiments, 1853 ; ', 1856 ; and La Légende des siècles, 1859 -RRB-.
He convinced the government of Queen Victoria to spare the lives of six Irish people convicted of terrorist activities and his influence was credited in the removal of the death penalty from the constitutions of Geneva, Portugal and Colombia.
Victor Hugo, l'homme océan He had also pleaded for Benito Juarez to spare the recently captured emperor Maximilian I of Mexico but to no avail.
Although Napoleon III granted an amnesty to all political exiles in 1859, Hugo declined, as it meant he would have to curtail his criticisms of the government.
It was only after Napoleon III fell from power and the Third Republic was proclaimed that Hugo finally returned to his homeland in 1870, where he was promptly elected to the National Assembly and the Senate.
He was in Paris during the siege by the Prussian army in 1870, famously eating animals given to him by the Paris zoo.
As the siege continued, and food became ever more scarce, he wrote in his diary that he was reduced to `` eating the unknown. ''
Because of his concern for the rights of artists and copyright, he was a founding member of the Association Littéraire et Artistique Internationale, which led to the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works.
HEADING Religious views
Hugo 's religious views changed radically over the course of his life.
In his youth, he identified himself as a Catholic and professed respect for Church hierarchy and authority.
From there he became a non-practicing Catholic, and increasingly expressed anti-catholic and anti-clerical views.
He dabbled in Spiritualism during his exile -LRB- where he participated also in seances -RRB-, and in later years settled into a Rationalist Deism similar to that espoused by Voltaire.
A census-taker asked Hugo in 1872 if he was a Catholic, and he replied, `` No..
A Freethinker ''.
Hugo never lost his antipathy towards the Roman Catholic Church, due largely to what he saw as the Church 's indifference to the plight of the working class under the oppression of the monarchy ; and perhaps also due to the frequency with which Hugo 's work appeared on the Pope 's list of `` proscribed books '' -LRB- Hugo counted 740 attacks on Les Misérables in the Catholic press -RRB-.
On the deaths of his sons Charles and François - Victor, he insisted that they be buried without crucifix or priest, and in his will made the same stipulation about his own death and funeral.
However, although Hugo believed Catholic dogma to be outdated and dying, he never directly attacked the institution itself.
Hugo 's Rationalism can be found in poems such as Torquemada -LRB- 1869, about religious fanaticism -RRB-, The Pope -LRB- 1878, anti-clerical -RRB-, Religions and Religion -LRB- 1880, denying the usefulness of churches -RRB- and, published posthumously, The End of Satan and God -LRB- 1886 and 1891 respectively, in which he represents Christianity as a griffin and Rationalism as an angel -RRB-.
`` Religions pass away, but God remains '', Hugo declared.
Christianity would eventually disappear, he predicted, but people would still believe in `` God, Soul, and the Power. ''
HEADING Victor Hugo and music
Although Hugo 's many talents did not include exceptional musical ability, he nevertheless had a great impact on the music world through the endless inspiration that his works provided for composers of the 19th and 20th century.
Hugo himself particularly enjoyed the music of Gluck and Weber and greatly admired Beethoven, and rather unusually for his time, he also appreciated works by composers from earlier centuries such as Palestrina and Monteverdi.
Two famous musicians of the 19th century were friends of Hugo : Berlioz and Liszt.
The latter played Beethoven in Hugo 's home, and Hugo joked in a letter to a friend that thanks to Liszt 's piano lessons, he learned how to play a favorite song on the piano -- even though only with one finger !
Hugo also worked with composer Louise Bertin, writing the libretto for her 1836 opera La Esmeralda which was based on the character in The Hunchback of Notre Dame.
`` Hugo à l'Op éra '', ed.
Arnaud Laster, L'Avant-Sc ène Opéra, no. 208 (2002).
Although for various reasons the opera closed soon after its fifth performance and is little known today, it has been recently enjoying a revival, both in a piano\/song concert version by Liszt at the Festival international Victor Hugo et Égaux 2007Cette page utilise des cadres and in a full orchestral version to be presented in July 2008 at Le Festival de Radio France et Montpellier Languedoc-Roussillon.23 juillet - Festival Radio France et Montpellier Languedoc Roussillon - classique - concert - opéra La Esmeralda Louise Bertin - direction Lawrence Foster - Orchestre Nationa...
Well over one thousand musical compositions have been inspired by Hugo 's works from the 1800s until the present day.
In particular, Hugo 's plays, in which he rejected the rules of classical theater in favor of romantic drama, attracted the interest of many composers who adapted them into operas.
More than one hundred operas are based on Hugo 's works and among them are Donizetti 's Lucrezia Borgia (1833), Verdi 's Rigoletto (1851) and Ernani (1844), and Ponchielli 's La Gioconda (1876).
Hugo 's novels as well as his plays have been a great source of inspiration for musicians, stirring them to create not only opera and ballet but musical theater such as Notre-Dame de Paris and the ever-popular Les Misérables, London West End 's longest running musical.
Additionally, Hugo 's beautiful poems have attracted an exceptional amount of interest from musicians, and numerous melodies have been based on his poetry by composers such as Berlioz, Bizet, Fauré, Franck, Lalo, Liszt, Massenet, Saint-Sa ëns, Rachmaninov and Wagner.
`` Hugo et la musique '' in Pleins feux sur Victor Hugo, Arnaud Laster, Comédie - Française (1981)
Today, Hugo 's work continues to stimulate musicians to create new compositions.
For example, Hugo 's novel against capital punishment, The Last Day of a Condemned Man, has recently been adapted into an opera by David Alagna -LRB- libretto by Frédérico Alagna -RRB-.
Their brother, tenor Roberto Alagna, performed in the opera 's premiere in Paris in the summer of 2007 and again in February 2008 in Valencia with Erwin Schrott as part of the Festival international Victor Hugo et Égaux 2008.
Festival Victor Hugo & Egaux 2008 In Guernsey, every two years the Victor Hugo International Music Festival attracts a wide range of musicians and the premiere of songs specially commissioned from Guillaume Connesson and based on Hugo 's poetry.
HEADING Declining years and death
When Hugo returned to Paris in 1870, the country hailed him as a national hero.
Despite his popularity Hugo lost his bid for reelection to the National Assembly in 1872.
Within a brief period, he suffered a mild stroke, his daughter Adèle 's internment in an insane asylum, and the death of his two sons.
-LRB- Adèle 's biography inspired the movie The Story of Adele H. -RRB- His wife Adèle had died in 1868.
His faithful mistress, Juliette Drouet, died in 1883, only two years before his own death.
Despite his personal loss, Hugo remained committed to the cause of political change.
On 30 January 1876 Hugo was elected to the newly created Senate.
The last phase of his political career is considered a failure.
Hugo took on the role of a maverick and got little done in the Senate.
In February 1881 Hugo celebrated his 79th birthday.
To honor the fact that he was entering his eightieth year, one of the greatest tributes to a living writer was held.
The celebrations began on the 25th when Hugo was presented with a Sèvres vase, the traditional gift for sovereigns.
On the 27th one of the largest parades in French history was held.
Marchers stretched from Avenue d'Eylau, down the Champs - Élysées, and all the way to the center of Paris.
The paraders marched for six hours to pass Hugo as he sat in the window at his house.
Every inch and detail of the event was for Hugo ; the official guides even wore cornflowers as an allusion to Cosette 's song in Les Misérables.
Victor Hugo 's death on 22 May 1885, at the age of 83, generated intense national mourning.
He was not only revered as a towering figure in literature, he was a statesman who shaped the Third Republic and democracy in France.
More than two million people joined his funeral procession in Paris from the Arc de Triomphe to the Panthéon, where he was buried.
He shares a crypt within the Panthéon with Alexandre Dumas and Émile Zola.
Most large French towns and cities have a street named for him.
The avenue where he died, in Paris, now bears his name.
HEADING Drawings
Many are not aware that Hugo was almost as prolific in the visual arts as he was in literature, producing more than 4,000 drawings in his lifetime.
Originally pursued as a casual hobby, drawing became more important to Hugo shortly before his exile, when he made the decision to stop writing in order to devote himself to politics.
Drawing became his exclusive creative outlet during the period 1848-1851.
Hugo worked only on paper, and on a small scale ; usually in dark brown or black pen-and-ink wash, sometimes with touches of white, and rarely with color.
The surviving drawings are surprisingly accomplished and `` modern '' in their style and execution, foreshadowing the experimental techniques of Surrealism and Abstract Expressionism.
He would not hesitate to use his children 's stencils, ink blots, puddles and stains, lace impressions, `` pliage '' or folding -LRB- i.e. Rorschach blots -RRB-, `` grattage '' or rubbing, often using the charcoal from match sticks or his fingers instead of pen or brush.
Sometimes he would even toss in coffee or soot to get the effects he wanted.
It is reported that Hugo often drew with his left hand or without looking at the page, or during Spiritualist séances, in order to access his unconscious mind, a concept only later popularized by Sigmund Freud.
Hugo kept his artwork out of the public eye, fearing it would overshadow his literary work.
However, he enjoyed sharing his drawings with his family and friends, often in the form of ornately handmade calling cards, many of which were given as gifts to visitors when he was in political exile.
Some of his work was shown to, and appreciated by, contemporary artists such as Van Gogh and Delacroix ; the latter expressed the opinion that if Hugo had decided to become a painter instead of a writer, he would have outshone the artists of their century.
Gallery :
Image : Victor_Hugo-Setting_Sun.
jpg Crépuscule -LRB- `` Twilight '' -RRB-, Jersey, 1853-1855.
Image : Victor_Hugo-Bridge.
jpg Ville avec le pont de Tumbledown, 1847.
Image : Victor_Hugo-Octopus.
jpg Pieuvre avec les initales V.H., -LRB- `` Octopus with the initials V.H. '' -RRB-, 1866.
File : Victor Hugo1300.
JPG Le Rocher de l'Ermitage dans un paysage imaginaire -LRB- `` Ermitage Rock in an imaginary landscape '' -RRB-
Image : Hugo.
jpg Le phare -LRB- `` The Lighthouse '' -RRB-
HEADING Memorials
The people of Guernsey erected a statue in Candie Gardens -LRB- St. Peter Port -RRB- to commemorate his stay in the islands.
The City of Paris has preserved his residences Hauteville House, Guernsey and 6, Place des Vosges, Paris as museums.
The house where he stayed in Vianden, Luxembourg, in 1871 has also become a commemorative museum.
Hugo is venerated as a saint in the Vietnamese religion of Cao Dai.
The Avenue Victor-Hugo in the XVIème arrondissement of Paris bears Hugo 's name, and links the Place de l' Étoile to the vicinity of the Bois de Boulogne by way of the Place Victor-Hugo.
This square is served by a Paris Métro stop also named in his honor.
A number of streets and avenues throughout France are likewise named after him.
The school Lycée Victor Hugo was founded in his town of birth, Besançon in France.
Avenue Victor-Hugo, located in Shawinigan, Quebec, Canada, was named to honor him.
In the city of Avellino, Italy, Victor Hugo lived briefly stayed in what is now known as Il Palazzo Culturale, when reuniting with his father, Leopold Sigisbert Hugo, in 1808.
Victor would later write about his brief stay here quoting `` C ' était un palais de marbre... ''.
In the city of Edinburgh, Scotland there is a delicatessen named Victor Hugo Delicatessen, it was originally run by a French couple but was purchased in 2005.
The shop is on Melville Terrace, over looking the meadows and next to University of Edinburgh halls of residence, Sciennes.Victor@Teyon'sHugoDeli.com
HEADING Works
HEADING Published during Hugo 's lifetime
Odes et poésies diverses (1822)
Odes -LRB- Hugo -RRB- (1823)
Han d'Islande (1823) -LRB- Hans of Iceland -RRB-
Nouvelles Odes (1824)
Bug-Jargal (1826)
Nils Gunnar Lie 's history (1826)
Odes et Ballades (1826)
Cromwell (1827)
Les Orientales (1829)
Le Dernier jour d'un condamné (1829) -LRB- The Last Day of a Condemned Man -RRB-
Hernani (1830)
Notre-Dame de Paris (1831), -LRB- The Hunchback of Notre Dame -RRB-
Marion Delorme (1831)
Les Feuilles d'automne (1831)
Le roi s ` amuse (1832)
Lucrèce Borgia (1833) -LRB- Lucretia Borgia -RRB-
Marie Tudor (1833)
Littérature et philosophie mêlées (1834)
Claude Gueux (1834)
Angelo, tyran de padoue (1835)
Les Chants du crépuscule (1835)
La Esmeralda -LRB- only libretto of an opera written by Victor Hugo himself -RRB- (1836)
Les Voix intérieures (1837)
Ruy Blas (1838)
Les Rayons et les ombres (1840)
Le Rhin (1842)
Les Burgraves (1843)
Napoléon le Petit (1852)
Les Châtiments (1853)
Les Contemplations (1856)
Les TRYNE (1856)
La Légende des siècles (1859)
Les Misérables (1862)
William Shakespeare (1864)
Les Chansons des rues et des bois (1865)
Les Travailleurs de la Mer (1866), -LRB- Toilers of the Sea -RRB-
La voix de Guernsey (1867)
L'Homme qui rit (1869), -LRB- The Man Who Laughs -RRB-
L'Ann ée terrible (1872)
Quatrevingt-treize -LRB- Ninety-Three -RRB- (1874)
Mes Fils (1874)
Actes et paroles -- Avant l'exil (1875)
Actes et paroles - Pendant l'exil (1875)
Actes et paroles - Depuis l'exil (1876)
La Légende des Siècles 2e série (1877)
L'Art d' être grand-p ère (1877)
Histoire d'un crime 1re partie (1877)
Histoire d'un crime 2e partie (1878)
Le Pape (1878)
La pitié suprême (1879)
Religions et religion (1880)
L' Âne (1880)
Les Quatres vents de l'esprit (1881)
Torquemada (1882)
La Légende des siècles Tome III (1883)
L'Archipel de la Manche (1883)
Poems of Victor Hugo
HEADING Published posthumously
Théâtre en liberté (1886)
La fin de Satan (1886)
Choses vues (1887)
Toute la lyre (1888)
Amy Robsart (1889)
Les Jumeaux (1889)
Actes et Paroles Depuis l'exil, 1876-1885 (1889)
Alpes et Pyrénées (1890)
Dieu (1891)
France et Belgique (1892)
Toute la lyre - dernière série (1893)
Les fromages (1895)
Correspondences - Tome I (1896)
Correspondences - Tome II (1898)
Les années funestes (1898)
Choses vues - nouvelle série (1900)
Post-scriptum de ma vie (1901)
Dernière Gerbe (1902)
Mille francs de récompense (1934)
Océan.
Tas de pierres (1942)
L'Intervention (1951)
Conversations with Eternity
HEADING Online texts
Works by Victor Hugo at Internet Archive
Works by Victor Hugo at The Online Books Page
Political speeches by Victor Hugo : Victor Hugo, My Revenge is Fraternity !
Selected Poetry
Biography and speech from 1851
Obituary in The Times
HEADING References
HEADING Online references
Afran, Charles (1997).
`` Victor Hugo : French Dramatist ''.
Website : Discover France.
-LRB- Originally published in Grolier Multimedia Encyclopedia, 1997, v. 9.0.1. -RRB-
Retrieved November 2005.
Bates, Alfred (1906).
`` Victor Hugo ''.
Website : Theatre History.
-LRB- Originally published in The Drama : Its History, Literature and Influence on Civilization, vol.
Alfred Bates.
London : Historical Publishing Company, 1906.
11 -- 13. -RRB-
Retrieved November 2005.
Bates, Alfred (1906).
`` Hernani ''.
Website : Theatre History.
-LRB- Originally published in The Drama : Its History, Literature and Influence on Civilization, vol.
Alfred Bates.
London : Historical Publishing Company, 1906.
20 -- 23. -RRB-
Retrieved November 2005.
Bates, Alfred (1906).
`` Hugo 's Cromwell ''.
Website : Theatre History.
-LRB- Originally published in The Drama : Its History, Literature and Influence on Civilization, vol.
Alfred Bates.
London : Historical Publishing Company, 1906.
18 -- 19. -RRB-
Retrieved November 2005.
Bittleston, Misha -LRB- uncited date -RRB-.
`` Drawings of Victor Hugo ''.
Website : Misha Bittleston.
Retrieved November 2005.
Burnham, I.G. (1896).
`` Amy Robsart ''.
Website : Theatre History.
-LRB- Originally published in Victor Hugo : Dramas.
Philadelphia : The Rittenhouse Press, 1896.
203 -- 6, 401-2. -RRB-
Retrieved November 2005.
Columbia Encyclopedia, 6th Edition -LRB- 2001-05 -RRB-.
`` Hugo, Victor Marie, Vicomte ''.
Website : Bartleby, Great Books Online.
Retrieved November 2005.
Retrieved November 2005.
Haine, W. Scott (1997).
`` Victor Hugo ''.
Encyclopedia of 1848 Revolutions.
Website : Ohio University.
Retrieved November 2005.
Illi, Peter -LRB- 2001-2004 -RRB-.
`` Victor Hugo : Plays ''.
Website : The Victor Hugo Website.
Retrieved November 2005.
Karlins, N.F. (1998).
`` Octopus With the Initials V.H. '' Website : ArtNet.
Retrieved November 2005.
Liukkonen, Petri (2000).
`` Victor Hugo -LRB- 1802-1885 -RRB- ''.
Books and Writers.
Website : Pegasos : A Literature Related Resource Site.
Retrieved November 2005.
Meyer, Ronald Bruce (2004).
`` Victor Hugo ''.
Website : Ronald Bruce Meyer.
Retrieved November 2005.
Robb, Graham (1997).
`` A Sabre in the Night ''.
Website : New York Times -LRB- Books -RRB-.
-LRB- Excerpt from Graham, Robb (1997).
Victor Hugo : A Biography.
New York : W.W. Norton & Company. -RRB-
Retrieved November 2005.
Roche, Isabel (2005).
`` Victor Hugo : Biography ''.
Meet the Writers.
Website : Barnes & Noble.
-LRB- From the Barnes & Noble Classics edition of The Hunchback of Notre Dame, 2005. -RRB-
Retrieved November 2005.
Uncited Author.
`` Victor Hugo ''.
Website : Spartacus Educational.
Retrieved November 2005.
Uncited Author.
`` Timeline of Victor Hugo ''.
Website : BBC.
Retrieved November 2005.
Uncited Author.
-LRB- 2000-2005 -RRB-.
`` Victor Hugo ''.
Website : The Literature Network.
Retrieved November 2005.
Uncited Author.
`` Hugo Caricature ''.
Website : Présence de la Littérature a l ' école.
Retrieved November 2005.
HEADING Further reading
Barbou, Alfred (1882).
Victor Hugo and His Times.
University Press of the Pacific : 2001 paper back edition.
Book sources
Barnett, Marva A., ed.
(2009).
Victor Hugo on Things That Matter : A Reader.
New Haven, CT : Yale University Press.
Book sources
Brombert, Victor H. (1984).
Victor Hugo and the Visionary Novel.
Boston : Harvard University Press.
Book sources
Davidson, A.F. (1912).
Victor Hugo : His Life and Work.
University Press of the Pacific : 2003 paperback edition.
Book sources
Dow, Leslie Smith (1993).
Adele Hugo : La Miserable.
Fredericton : Goose Lane Editions.
Book sources
Falkayn, David (2001).
Guide to the Life, Times, and Works of Victor Hugo.
University Press of the Pacific.
Book sources
Feller, Martin, Der Dichter in der Politik.
Victor Hugo und der deutsch-franz ösische Krieg von 1870\/71.
Untersuchungen zum französischen Deutschlandbild und zu Hugos Rezeption in Deutschland.
Doctoral Dissertation, Marburg 1988.
Frey, John Andrew (1999).
A Victor Hugo Encyclopedia.
Greenwood Press.
Book sources
Grant, Elliot (1946).
The Career of Victor Hugo.
Harvard University Press.
Out of print.
Halsall, A.W. et al.
(1998).
Victor Hugo and the Romantic Drama.
University of Toronto Press.
Book sources
Hart, Simon Allen (2004).
Lady in the Shadows : The Life and Times of Julie Drouet, Mistress, Companion and Muse to Victor Hugo.
Publish American.
Book sources
Houston, John Porter (1975).
Victor Hugo.
New York : Twayne Publishers.
Book sources
Hovasse, Jean-Marc (2001), Victor Hugo : Avant l' exil.
Paris : Fayard.
Book sources
Hovasse, Jean-Marc (2008), Victor Hugo : Pendant l'exil I. Paris : Fayard.
Book sources
Ireson, J.C. (1997).
Victor Hugo : A Companion to His Poetry.
Clarendon Press.
Book sources
Laster, Arnaud (2002).
Hugo à l'Op éra.
Paris : L'Avant-Sc ène Opéra, no. 208.
Maurois, Andre (1956).
Olympio : The Life of Victor Hugo.
New York : Harper & Brothers.
Maurois, Andre (1966).
Victor Hugo and His World.
London : Thames and Hudson.
Out of print.
Pouchain, Gérard and Robert Sabourin (1992).
Juliette Drouet, ou, La dépaysée.
Paris : Fayard.
Book sources
Robb, Graham (1997).
Victor Hugo : A Biography.
W.W. Norton & Company : 1999 paperback edition.
Book sources, -LRB- description\/reviews at wwnorton.com -RRB-
Tonazzi, Pascal (2007) Florilège de Notre-Dame de Paris -LRB- anthologie -RRB- Paris, Editions Arléa ISBN 2869597959
HEADING External links
Guernsey 's Victor Hugo International Music Festival
Translation of Victor Hugo note found in `` Hunchback of Notre Dame, '' french edition
English translation of Hugo 's At Dawn Tomorrow -LRB- Demain, dès l'aube -RRB-
Another English translation of Demain, dès l'aube
English translation of Hugo 's A Villequier
English translation of Hugo 's Oh !
je fus comme fou dans le premier moment -LRB- ` Oh !
I was like a crazy man in the first moment ' -RRB- on the death of his daughter Léopoldine
Official site of the Société des Amis de Victor Hugo
Official site of the Festival international Victor Hugo et Égaux
Translation of The legend of Victor Hugo by Paul Lafargue
Sophie went to Italy with her husband who was a governor of a province near Naples.
They also went to Spain where Joseph governed three Spanish provinces.
Sophie separated temporarily from Léopold in 1803, as it was n't an easy life.
She settled in Paris.
This meant she dominated Hugo 's education.
Therefore, Hugo 's early work, mainly in poetry, show him Monarchism and Faith.
The 1848 Revolution made Hugo rebel against his Catholic Royalist education.
After that revolution, he prefered Republicanism and Freethought.
Hugo was very influenced by François - René de Chateaubriand, the famous Romantic writer, during the early 1800s.
When Hugo was young, he said he would be `` Chateaubriand or nothing ''.
Indeed, many things Chateaubriand did, Hugo also did.
First he defended the cause of Romanticism.
Then, he became involved in politics and supported RepublicanismFinally, he was forced into exile because of his political views.
Hugo 's passion and eloquence in his early work made him successful and famous at an early age.
His first collection of poetry -LRB- Odes et poésies diverses -RRB- was published in 1822.
At the time, Hugo was only twenty years old.
It earned him a royal pension -LRB- money from the king -RRB- from Louis XVIII.
His poems were admired but it was his next collection, four years later in 1826 -LRB- Odes et Ballades -RRB- which revealed Hugo to be a great poet.
The FIFA World Cup is the most important competition in the sport of soccer football -LRB- association football, or football -RRB-.
More people watch the World Cup finals than any other sporting event in the world -- even more people than watch the Olympic Games.
The finals now include 32 teams.
Before 1998, only 24 teams were in the finals.
The 32 teams in the finals then play for four weeks in the host nation to decide the champion -LRB- tournament winner -RRB-.
The Smashing Pumpkins were an influential alternative rock band of the early 1990s.
The part on the model that takes the changing signals and helps turn them into movement is called the receiver.
Towards the end of the Edo Period, two military clans, the Minamoto and Taira, had grown so powerful that they took control over the country and fought wars against each other as each one tried to be more powerful.
In 1185, the Minamoto defeated the Taira, and Minamoto Yoritomo started a new military government in Kamakura in 1192.
This is why the country needed lots of samurai.
When Toyotomi Hideyoshi reunited Japan, he started a very strict social caste system which was later completed by Tokugawa Ieyasu and his successors.
Furthermore, he made it a law that the samurai were the only people who were allowed to arm themselves with a sword.
According to the Edo Period 's official hierarchy of social castes, the samurai were the most important, followed by the farmers, artisans and merchants.
Each caste was then divided into different groups according to importance.
Samurai without masters were called ronin and caused minor troubles during the early Edo Period.
With the fall of Osaka Castle in 1615, the Tokugawa had lost his last possible rival, and it was much more peaceful in Japan for about 250 years.
As a result, martial skills became less important, and most samurai became bureaucrats, teachers or artists.
The samurai were allowed to fight anybody who did not show them proper respect.
In this way the warrior was able to test his sword 's sharpness.
This has the meaning of loyalty to one 's master, self-discipline and respectful, ethical behavior.
In Europe, this ritual is often mistaken for hara-kiri.
Japanese women had a very clear role in Japanese society.
Most of them took care of house and crops and raising children.
In 1199, Itagaki fought against 10.000 Heike soldiers.
She was very good at handling the naginata sword, which made her very famous.
They usually did this while their warrior husbands were busy in battles.
The short kaiken knife was used by the young women to defend their virtueor, if they lost it, to take their own life.
They had qualities that made them an important part of Japanese society.
Wives of rich samurai were very well dressed and enjoyed a good position in society.
They did not do any physical work.
No women were allowed to be involve in politics or warfare.
Yamauchi Kazutoyo 's -LRB- 1545 -- 1605 -RRB- wife, Chiyo, was one of the most loyal wives known in Japanese history.
Her power was of another kind, she supported her husband during hard times, saving to buy a horse for her him.
During Tokugawa Era -LRB- 1603 -- 1867 -RRB- women 's education became very important.
Special books were written for women.
But by the end of the Tokugawa period women attended philosophical and literary classes.
Somebody who does not listen to all three parts, or who does not let the mind control the other two will be unhappy.
Plato thinks that people are made of three things : suck cock evry fucking gay ass day
He thought that non-philosophers should allow themselves to be ruled by philosophers and that if they do this then they will be happy.
Plato also talked about many other things while discussing these questions including metaphysics, psychology, religion and most branches of philosophy.
Plato thought that people and societies are very much alike.
Plato thought that people are made of three things :
He said that a good person will listen to all these things, but will let the mind control the other two.
He said that they will be like a country in anarchy.
Plato also thought society is made up of three things -LRB- types of people -RRB-
He said that society needs all three things -LRB- types of people -RRB- but that only the philosophers will be good people.
He introduced the philosophy called Platonism.
He was born the fourth of fourteen children came from family of sharecroppers.
The guitar strings are plucked with the fingers of the right hand, or a small pick made of thin plastic.
This type of pick is called a `` plectrum ''.
The left hand holds the neck of the guitar while the fingers press the strings to the fretboard.
Different finger positions on the fretboard make different notes.
Guitar-like plucked string instruments have been used for thousands of years.
In many countries and at many different time periods, guitars and other plucked string instruments have been very popular, because they are light to carry from place to place, they are easier to learn to play than many other instruments.
Most pieces of popular music that have been written since the 1950s are written with guitars.
There are many different types of guitars, classified on how they are made and the type of music they are used for.
This type of guitar is called `` acoustic ''.
-LRB- An acoustic instrument is one that makes its own dynamics. -RRB-
These guitars, which are often used in popular music, are called electric guitars.
This is because they do not use acoustics to amplify the sound.
A person who makes or mends -LRB- fixes -RRB- guitars is a luthier, which comes from the word `` lute ''.
Modern guitars come in four main types.
The term acoustic guitar is generally used for a guitar used for popular music, even though a classical guitar is also an acoustic instrument.
There are many other different types of acoustic guitars from different parts of the world.
Atkins demonstrated his several times on US television, and also on The Today Show with Les Paul who was with him as a guest.
It belonged to Queen Elizabeth I and probably to her father Henry VIII before it was given to her.
In the 8th century the Moors brought the four-stringed oud into Spain.
The introduction to the oud caused changes to the design of the cithara.
The Vinaccia family from Naples, Italy were famous mandolin makers.
The guitar 's design was improved -LRB- made better -RRB- by the famous Spanish luthier, Antonio Torres Jurado -LRB- 1817-1892 -RRB- and by Louis Panormo of London.
Electric guitars have a number of pickups -LRB- up to 6 or 8 in some custom-built ones -RRB- but usually between one and three pickups that `` pick up '' the sound, changing it into an electrical signal.
Some guitars have single-coil pickups, while others have double-coil pickups, called humbuckers.
Single-coil pickups are suited to lead guitar, but can produce, from the electric current.
Humbuckers do not produce hum, but can have a sound.
HEADING Different kinds of guitars
Green Day was still successful, reaching double platinum, double platinum, and gold status.
RIAA Bestsellers They also have three Grammy Awards, Best Alternative Album for Dookie, Best Rock Album for American Idiot, and Record of the Year for Boulevard of Broken Dreams.
American Idiot won the 2005 Grammy for `` Best Rock Album '' and the band won a total of seven of the eight awards they were nominated for, in the 2005 MTV music awards, also with the popular Viewer 's Choice Award.
Kerplunk 's success made major record labels interested in Green Day, and soon left Lookout !
VH1, 2000.
Marvin Pentz Gay, Jr. was the eldest son of a Pentecostal minister and the second of four children.
His family lived in a mostly African-American community in Washington, D.C. When he was a child, Gaye was abused by his father.
He used music to help him cope with the abuse, playing instruments and singing gospel music in his father 's church.
When he was a teenager, Gaye became a fan of doo-wop and joined several groups before he left high school at the start of his senior year.
In 1956, when he was seventeen years old, Gaye left home and enlisted in -LRB- joined -RRB- in the United States Air Force.
He was honorably discharged the following year.
Gaye moved back to Washington D.C. and formed a group called The Marquees.
The group was discovered by musician Bo Diddley and they recorded the songs `` Good Morning Little Schoolgirl '' and `` Wyatt Earp ''.
They then met Harvey Fuqua and joined with his group The Moonglows.
They released a song called `` Mama Loocie '' in 1959.
This was the first song recorded with Gaye singing as lead vocalist.
The following year, the new Moonglows split up and with Fuqua as his mentor, Gaye traveled to Detroit, Michigan where they met Berry Gordy, who had formed Motown Records.
Gordy was impressed by Marvin 's talent as a piano player and drummer and signed him as a session drummer for Motown.
Gaye played drums on most of Motown 's early hits for artists like The Marvelettes, Mary Wells, the Miracles and Stevie Wonder.
In 1961, Gordy signed Gaye as a recording artist and released The Soulful Moods of Marvin Gaye.
The album did not sell well.
Gaye 's first became successful when he co-wrote the Marvelettes ' top twenty hit, `` Beechwood 4-5789 ''.
In 1962 he released his own song called `` Stubborn Kind of Fellow ''.
It was partly about his own life and got into the top fifty of the pop chart and number eight on the R&B side.
His first top 40 single, `` Hitch Hike '', and his first top ten hit, `` Pride & Joy '', made him a teen idol.
These early singles and those on his second release, That Stubborn Kind of Fellow, featured Martha and the Vandellas in the backGaye had more successful songs like early success continued with `` Can I Get a Witness '', `` Baby Do n't You Do It '', `` You Are a Wonderful One '' and `` Try It Baby ''.
In late 1964, Gaye recorded `` How Sweet It Is -LRB- To Be Loved By You -RRB- '', which peaked at the top ten of the American pop charts and became one of his first hits abroad reaching the top fifty in the United Kingdom.
Gaye also worked with his friend, singer Smokey Robinson to write number-one singles, `` I 'll Be Doggone '' and `` Ai n't That Peculiar ''.
Usually the man will hold the penis -LRB- in erection -RRB- in his hand and to move the hand up and down.
Orgasm is a very pleasant feeling.
In the context of evolution, masturbation serves a well-defined purpose.
It can increase fertility during sexual intercourse.
It does this by using sexual functions.
In females, it can regulate the conditions in the vagina, cervix and the uterus.
This can either increase or decrease the chance of conception.
If the chance is increased or decreased depends on the timing of the masturbation.
Female masturbation can also protect against cervical infections.
It does this by increasing the acidity of the cervical mucus and by moving debris out of the cervix.
Objects inserted into the vagina or anus should be clean and should not be able to scratch or break.
Care should be taken not to fully insert anything into the anus -- any object used should have a flared or flanged base ; otherwise getting it out may need medical help.
Usually the man will hold the penis -LRB- in erection -RRB- in his hand and move the hand up and down.
Sometimes a lubricant is used to create a softer sensation.
As the sensation increases in intensity, the rate of hand movement generally quickens until orgasm occurs.
Orgasm is a very pleasurable feeling which results in semen being ejaculated from the penis.
Men may also rub and touch other sensitive areas of the body such as the scrotum -LRB- the place where the testicles are located -RRB-, the nipples, and the anus.
The anus is rich in nerve endings and is sometimes stimulated during masturbation.
Studies have shown that a vast majority of people masturbate on a regular basis, although the rate of masturbation varies greatly from one or two times per month to once or more daily.
Many women also enjoy the feeling of fingers or a sex toy in the vagina, however this is a secondary sensation that is not necessary for orgasm, and that rarely results in orgasm on its own.
Masturbation is usually continued until orgasm.
Some women may have problems reaching an orgasm, especially when they are young, and have little experience masturbating.
When this happens, more practice and a reliable vibrator with strong vibration can help a great deal.
We all do these unconscious actions or reflex actions.
Consciousness is a spectrum.
For example, the tests make sure that architects know how to make the building 's structure safe, so that it will not collapse.
It is used for periods, sex and having children.
It is also a part of a female body that forms a canal making the passageway to the cervix.
For there to be a pregnancy, sperm needs to be released at the top of the vagina near the cervix, and fertilize the ovum -LRB- egg -RRB-.
The vagina has lots of nerves, so when a woman is aroused, she has a pleasurable sensation sometimes leading to orgasm.
In most places, breasts are private and covered with something -LRB- like clothes -RRB-, but in some places, people are allowed to show breasts in public.
Carpenters usually make very good foremen on larger jobs as they deal with so much of the project from ground up.
Carpenters usually make very good foremen -LRB- people who watch over a job -RRB- on larger jobs as they deal with so much of the project from ground up.
Carpenters are always adding to their tools and always learning how to use the new tools, materials, and ways of carpenting.
San Diego is the 2nd largest city in the U.S. state of California.
It is at the southwest corner of California, as well as southwest corner of the continental United States.
The government of Iowa has three branches, similar to the Federal government of the United States.
The judicial branch is lead by the Iowa Supreme Court, which is currently headed by Chief Justice Marsha Ternus.
For example, a person who was born with a female body, who has a male gender identity, and who loves men might call himself a gay transgender man.
America 's Army is a multiplayer first-person shooter computer game series.
It can be played using Windows, Macintosh, orLinux.
It is the official game of the United States Army.
The first version was free.
It came out on July 4, 2002.
It has been updated many times since then.
The second important release was America 's Army : Special Forces in November 2003.
America 's Army was made by the MOVES Institute at the Naval Postgraduate School.
It is based on the Unreal engine.
Most people who play video games like it, but some people do n't.
America 's Army is a tactical shooter.
It is also called a `` serious games ''.
According to the game 's website, America 's Army `` provides civilians with an inside perspective and a virtual role in today 's premier land force : the U.S. Army.
On February 20, 2005 there were 4.6 million registered players, and 2.7 million of them had finished basic training.
http://www.americasarmy.com/ Also, there were more than 15,000 servers being used, and 1.3 million rounds being played each day.
The game has been changed a lot.
This keeps people interested in the game.
In 1999, Lieutenant Colonel E. Casey Wardynski, a professor at the U.S Military Academy at West Point decided to tell the Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel and the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army for Military Manpower about his idea for an online computer game.
His basic idea eventually became America 's Army.
In the same year less people were joining the army.
http://www.cnn.com/US/9909/30/army.recruitment/#1.
Congress decided to use `` aggressive, innovative experiments '' including America 's Army to get more people to join the Army.
The first release was July 4, 2002, and other changes -LRB- called patches -RRB- were added.
On November 6, 2003, version 2.0 of America 's Army : Special Forces was made.
-LRB- Go here for more information about the different version -RRB-.
The Army is spending about USD$ 3 million a year to make more versions of the game.
Another AA version to be called America 's Army : Rise of a Soldier is available on Playstation 2 and Xbox.
This version was developed by UbiSoft.
Since America 's Army was created, people have complained about its purpose.
People have argued about the Army using it 's money to make a game.
They are also worried about how this game will change people 's lives.
In America 's Army there are teams of soldiers fighting in a war.
The person who is playing controls a soldier of the US Army from the character 's eyes.
This is called first person.
Players fight as either the US Army or Indigenous forces -LRB- `` IF '' -RRB-.
They fight against a team called `` OPFOR '' -LRB- Army lingo for `` Opposing Forces '' -RRB-.
There are different kinds of OPFORs called insurgents, enemy forces or terrorists.
One of America 's Armys different features is the way the enemies are.
The players are split into two different teams.
There is usually an assault group and a defense group.
The assault loses the round if the time limit runs out, which is usually ten minutes.
The players on each team seem themselves as American soldiers with American weapons, such as the M16A2.
Their opponents look like non-uniformed people with Eastern bloc weapons, like the AK-47 -LRB- the counterpart of the M16A2 in the game -RRB-.
In training maps the only distinguishing features are the players ' uniforms.
The development team did this to make the game realistic for players on both sides.
They allowed everyone to play on the side of the good guys.
They also avoiding the problem of asking players to kill American soldiers.
On the Special Forces maps, players can also play as non-uniformed people with Eastern bloc weapons -LRB- known as Indigenous forces -LRB- `` IF '' -RRB- in the game -RRB-, but be on the same team as regular army forces.
This is confusing to many players because when they pick up an enemy weapon, it works differently than the US version.
But when his opponent had it, to him it was an M16.
The important thing is that each weapon behaves as the owner sees it.
It transforms when it is picked up.
If people pay a lot of attention might notice that the enemies weapons behave wrong, but it is hard to notice.
Every round starts with both teams spawning at the same time.
The goal of the game is to complete the objectives, kill the enemy team.
For example, one objective could be to kill the V.I.P., who is trying to survive and escape.
If a player joined the other team, he would have to protect the same V.I.P. The round is over if a team wins0, or if the time limit is reached.
For a listing of missions gohere.
The game remembers how many people each player has killed, how many times each team has won, how many times each player has been killed, and how well the player is completing the objectives.
The game then distributes score which calculates the player 's `` Honor '' level.
Every time a player is killed, every time he fails to protect an objective which he is assigned to defend, and especially every killing of fellow teammates or his allies caused by friendly fire is called a violation of the ROE -LRB- Rules of engagement -RRB- in the game and has an extremely negative effect on his score and `` Honor ''.
If too many points are lost in a round, the player is put in `` jail '' and kicked out of the server.
Every healing of injured teammates and every killing of opponents increases a players score and `` Honor ''.
Completing the game 's missions affects a player 's score in a good way and his `` Honor '' points as well.
The most common is to not let anyone with less than 10 Honor in because this is the base level that everyone starts with.
Some also do n't let players with too much Honor in.
The developers say that `` Honor '' is based on the values of the Army : `` Loyalty, Duty, Respect, Selfless Service, Honor, Integrity and Personal Courage or Leadership ''.
Its main purpose in the game is stop `` team-killing '', which is a problem in a lot of online first-person shooters -LRB- see team killer -RRB-.
The game depicts real guns.
The guns have all the same traits as the real versions.
Each gun has different accuracy, power, recoil, and rate of jamming.
To aim, there are cross-hairs and iron sights.
Players may select a `` class '' like squad leader, rifleman, automatic rifleman, grenadier, or sniper ; these classes decide what weapon the player will have at the beginning of each round.
Some players from each team may be medics.
Medics can help their teammates get better after they get shot.
Being a medic is an extra ability which is added to the class.
The Honor points are used to decide which players gets which class.
Players with more Honor usually get to pick their class first.
Each gun also can jam in action.
When a gun jams it means that it stops working because a part is stuck.
The player then needs to press a button to fix the gun.
This can be a problem because it makes it so that the player can not shoot for a few seconds.
AA was the first game ever to have player 's guns jam.
In the first few versions, weapons could only hurt players and glass.
For example, a grenade could not destroy a television but a gun could put a bullet hole in the screen.
Compared to most games, the grenades and are more deadly.
They tried to make the blast radius of grenades more like real life than it usually is in other games.
Getting hurt by weapons always leads to some bleeding, which causes a player 's health gauge to go down over time.
Injuries make players slower, they also make it harder for the player to shoot where they are aiming.
Sometimes, if the player does not get help from a medic, they will die.
In the newer versions of the game players can make changes to their weapons.
For example, the M4 Carbine can be change in different ways and let the soldier have features that work better on a certain map.
For example, on a large map a scope and a bi-pod might be picked, but in a city a player might choose only iron sights and a M203 grenade launcher.
Every player starts the round with one or two guns, some grenades and, on some maps, night vision goggles or binoculars.
A list of the weapons is here :
M136 AT-4 anti-tank weapon on some maps
OpFor uses AK-47, AKS-74U
OpFor uses GP30 mounted under an AK-47
OpFor uses the 75 round RPK
M4A1 SOPMOD including one of these options from each category,
Special Forces : Standard M4 Carbine with SOPMOD kit including one of these options from each category.
OpFor AKS-74U SpetsNaz with Modifications
OpFor carry the Makarov pistol and the Dragunov, Mosin-Nagant and VSS Vintorez
Indigenous Forces -LRB- IF -RRB- :
US Stryker Armoured Personnel Carrier looks like a Russian BTR-80 if on the other side.
In old releases A 50-caliber machine gun on the roof can be controlled from inside, but can not be driven around.
The XM25 in AA will be an assault weapon that fires an Airburst round using a special launcher.
The robot will be a radio controlled machine that looks like the Goliath from World War II, but instead of exploding it has special tools that can be used for defusing a bomb or helping people stuck in dangerous locations.
The Javelin is an anti-vehicle, self-guided rocket.
It can also be used against bunkers and other strong locations.
Other planned game weapons include small bombs used to open locked doors, a shotgun -LRB- also used to open doors -RRB-, and land mines.
The land mines are armed and placed like a hand grenade, but they would not explode until triggered.
They are also working on making more drivable vehicles, like an armored HMMWV, which was in a video at the Electronic Entertainment Expo -LRB- E3 -RRB-.
The map list is sorted by the version they were released with, with newer maps coming first.
The game currently has 28 multiplayer maps and 14 single player training missions.
Completing these training missions unlocks things like the ability to play online or to become a medic, a special forces unit or a sniper.
Maps have different sizes, objectives, and weapons that players can have.
However, no known custom maps have been made because there is no level editor for the game and the developers made it impossible for players to use the level design computer program UnrealEd, which works for other Unreal engine games.
Woodland Assault, a forest map where one side must find and destroy a collection of weapons, and the other side defend it.
Urban Assault, a city map in a desert.
Each side must find collection of weapons.
SF Taiga, a winter map in a forest.
SF Oasis, set in a desert one side must get out of a canyon and the other must stop them.
SF Village, a city map in a desert.
SF Arctic, a winter map, one side must defend a group of vehicles traveling together -LRB- convoy -RRB-.
Includes Stryker vehicles that can not be driven.
SF CSAR, a city desert map with a crashed blackhawk helicopter.
SF Pipeline, a new version of the original Pipeline map, but with SF things.
The map 's layout and objectives stay the same.
SF Recon, a large desert night map in which one side must find a bunch of things, and the other must stop them.
SF Hospital, a VIP rescue or defense map set in a city environment surrounding and inside a hospital and helicopter landing pad
Mountain Pass SE, a new version of the original Mountain Pass from AA :0.
Bridge SE -LRB- came with v1.7 -RRB-, a bigger version of Bridge Crossing which adds extra ways to get around the bridge and is less foggy.
Weapons Cache SE -LRB- v1.5 -RRB-, a bigger and different version of Weapons Cache with different objectives.
River Basin -LRB- v1.4 -RRB-, is a large MILES training map with objectives in grassy hills, in a daylight summer environment.
Mountain Pass -LRB- v. 1.3 -RRB-, a large winter map with lots of hills.
JRTC Farm -LRB- v1.2.1 -RRB-, one side spawns in by using parachutes and must destroy a parked helicopter, the other side must defend it.
Weapons Cache -LRB- v1.2.1 -RRB-, a city map with objectives inside a big building.
Mountain Ambush -LRB- v1.2 -RRB-, objectives in a mix of forest and grassy environments.
The attacking side parachutes in from a C-17 and has night-vision.
HQ Raid, a MILES map set at night, in a forest area with hills.
Collapsed Tunnel, A a dark level in sewer tunnels.
Each side must secure objective points.
Insurgent Camp, set at night in Afghanistan, the attackers must get into a building and access computers.
One side defends the station, and the other completes objectives inside, such as turning of valves.
Bridge Crossing, a foggy winter map with each side starting on one side of a long bridge.
MOUT McKenna, a training level in a fake city, kind of like city paintball courses.
Version 2.7 came out June 2006
Version 2.6 is available for Microsoft Windows, Linux and for Mac OS X.
The information there is not true.
Zamenhof wanted esperanto to be the international language.
Esperanto is an artificial language which was invented by Ludoviko Lazaro Zamenhof, a Polish doctor, in the end of the nineteenth century.
Esperanto is very easy to learn, because the grammar is simple and regular.
HEADING Grammar
The basic words are : mi - I, vi - you, li - he, i - she, i - it, la - the, jes - yes, ne - no.
Nouns end in - o. For example, patr o means father.
To make a noun plural you must only add - j. For example : patro j means father s.
Verbs end in - as when they are in present tense.
In English, you must say I am, you are, he is.
But in Esperanto, there is just one word for am, are, is - estas.
Similary, kuras can mean run or runs.
Infinitives end in - i. For example, esti means to be, povi means can.
It is easy to make past tense - you always add - is ending.
To make future tense, add - os For example :
kuri - to run
mi kuras - I run
vi kuras - you ran
li kuris - he ran
i kuros - it will run
Adjectives end in - a, adverbs end in - e, for example rapide means fast, granda means big, bona means good ', bone means well.
Many words can be made opposite by adding mal at the beginning.
bona = good.
malbona = bad
bone = well, malbone = bad
granda = big, malgranda = small
Examples of sentences which show the rules :
Mi povas kuri rapide - I can run fast.
Vi ne povas kuri rapide - You ca n't run fast.
Mi estas knabo.
- I am a boy.
Mi estas malbona esperantisto = I am a bad esperantist.
To make a question, you must say u at the beginning.
For example :
u vi parolas esperante ?
- Do you speak esperanto ?
Jes, mi parolas esperanto tre bone.
- Yes, I speak esperanto very well
The numbers are :
100cent
1000mil
Mia means my, via means your, lia means his.
So if you want to say how old is somebody in esperanto, just say :
Lia a o estas 20 - He is 20.
Esperanto has over 20 special words which can change meaning of another word.
Some of them are :
mal - -LRB- added before the word -RRB- makes the word opposite.
bo - -LRB- added before the word -RRB- makes the word `` in-law ''.
So patro means a father, but bopatro means a father-in-law.
- ej - -LRB- added after the word, but before the ending -RRB- means place.
So lerni means to learn, but lernejo means a school.
- in - -LRB- added after the word, but before the ending -RRB- changes the gender of a word into female.
So patro means a father, but patrino means a mother.
- ar - -LRB- added after the word, but before the ending -RRB- means many things of the same kind.
So arbo means a tree, but arbaro means a forest.
These words combined can make a very complicated word, like malmultekosta -LRB- cheap -RRB-, vendredviandman malpermeso -LRB- that you ca n't eat meat on Friday -RRB-
vi kuras - you run
Nouns end in - o. For example, patro means father.
To make a noun plural you must only add - j. For example : patroj means fathers.
Adjectives end in - a, adverbs end in - e, for example rapide means fast, granda means big, bona means good, bone means well.
= I can run fast.
= You ca n't run fast.
= I am a boy.
= Do you speak Esperanto ?
= Yes, I speak Esperanto very well.
Lia a o estas dudek = He is twenty (20) years old.
bone = well, malbone = poorly
Esperanto means `` the one who hopes. ''
The name comes from `` Doktoro Esperanto, '' which is what Zamenhof called himself when he made the first book about Esperanto.
But people that learned the language wanted to call it Esperanto, which means `` the one who hopes. ''
Materpiscis -LRB- an ancient fish -RRB-
A fossil is the remains or trace of something that was once alive, but is now long-gone and dead.
The most-common fossils are those left behind by the hard, calcitic shells of molluscs -LRB- such as clams and snails -RRB- and of now-rare brachiopods -LRB- also known as lampshells -RRB-.
These sea-dwelling shellfish have produced many fossiliferous -LRB- that is, fossil-bearing -RRB- chalky layers of limestone in the earth.
Microscopic or very tiny fossils are called `` microfossils ; '' while larger, macroscopic fossils -- such as those of seashells and mammals -- are called `` macrofossils. ''
This earthen mold, in turn, may produce a stoney copy or rock-like replica of the deceased organism known as an internal `` fossil cast '' -LRB- technically called a `` steinkern -RRB-. ''
These often were about weird creatures that Lovecraft made up by himself or took from existing mythology.
Infectious disease is sickness caused when an organism -LRB- a living thing like a plant or animal -RRB- is attacked by a pathogen.
Pathogens -LRB- like bacteria, viruses, and other germs -RRB- are too small to see.
Some infectious diseases are contagious, which means that the sick plant, animal, or person can get other things sick.
The pathogen can get from one living thing to another through air, food, water, and physical touch.
Usually, the sick organism heals.
Then, the organism 's body learns how to fight the pathogen.
If the pathogen attacks again, the immune system knows how to fight it.
Thanks to the immune system, you usually ca n't get the same disease twice.
When an organism 's body knows how to fight a disease, the body is immune to that pathogen.
Here are some types of pathogens :
Infectious disease is an important cause of pain and death.
The World Health Organization says that about 1/4 of all deaths are caused by infectious disease.
These three pathogens cause the most deaths : HIV -LRB- the virus that causes AIDS -RRB-, Tuberculosis, and Malaria.
Infectious disease is sickness that happens when an organism -LRB- a living thing like a plant or animal -RRB- is attacked by a pathogen.
The pathogen can get from one organism to another through air, food, water, and physical touch.
The World Health Organization says that infectious disease cause about 1/4 of all deaths.
-LRB- That means that the person must be responsible for doing it and must choose to do it -RRB-.
Some Philosophers ask the question ` What is an action ? '
or ` What makes somebody do an action ? '
For example, if I want an apple and think that by walking to a table with some apples on it I can get one, then I will walk to the table.
If I think that by walking to a table with some apples on it I can get an apple, but want an orange and not an apple, then I will not walk to the table.
Other philosophers say that the want-think theory is not true.
Xiangqi is a form of chess that started in Asia -LRB- either China or India -RRB-.
It is sometimes called Chinese chess.
Though similar to chess, it is different because it has different pieces, with different allowed moves.
The United States Democratic Party -LRB- Democrats -RRB- is one of the two big political parties in the United States.
He changed his party 's name to the Democratic Party, because he believed in democracy rather than republicanism.
He is regarded as the first Democratic Party President of the United States.
Woodrow Wilson was elected against a divided opposition in 1912.
He led the USA to victory in World War I.
The next Democratic President was Franklin D. Roosevelt, who was elected in 1932 during the Great Depression.
Roosevelt was one of the greatest and most popular Presidents of all time and he is the only one who has ever won four terms in office.
During these years, Democrats had big majorities in Congress.
Since then, the party has had to think again about how it can win back voters and rebuild its support.
There are few issues on which all Democrats agree, but most support graduated income taxes -LRB- rich people pay more than poor people -RRB-, ethics reform in the Congress, health care reform, abortion rights -LRB- pro-choice -RRB-, more stem cell research to cure sickness, and a timetable for taking American troops out of Iraq.
Most support for Democrats comes from states in the Northeast, Midwest, and Pacific Coast areas of the USA, but there are Democrats elected to office in all other states too.
By tradition, the Democratic Party represents liberal values, and uses government to help weak groups, such as children, `` senior citizens '' -LRB- old people -RRB-, the poor, and minority groups.
Democrats wrote many historic laws such as the Social Security Act of 1933 and the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Because of the strong support of Democrats for civil rights, most African Americans support the Democrats in elections.
Democrats have not had a majority of seats in the House or Senate since the election of 1994.
Every four years the party holds a National Convention where they agree on their candidate for President.
The last National Convention was in Boston, Massachusetts in 2004 where John Kerry was nominated for President and John Edwards was nominated for Vice President.
Jefferson first called his party the Republican Party because it believed the USA should be a republic instead of a direct democracy.
The name of the party was changed to Democratic-Republican in 1798.
He was a new kind of politician who got support from many different kinds of people, especially poor and working people in the country, rather than just from rich people in the city.
He changed his party 's name to the Democratic Party, because he believed in democracy.
He is called the first President of the United States from the modern Democratic Party.
Woodrow Wilson was elected over two Republican candidates in 1912.
Roosevelt was one of the best and most popular Presidents of all time and he is the only one who has ever won four terms in office.
After World War II, Democrats had big majorities again in both houses of Congress -LRB- Republicans won some elections in the 1950 's, 1960 's, and 1980 's -RRB- until the election of 1994.
Since then, the party has had to think about how it can win back voters and rebuild its support.
Democrats wrote many important laws such as the Social Security Act of 1933 and the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Martin Van Buren
Touch is the feeling you get when you put a part of your body against something, or something is put against you.
Isaac Newton made them.
The third law says that if one thing puts a force on another thing, the second thing also puts a force on the first thing.
Isaac Newton made them.
Diogenes of Sinope was a Greek philosopher, known also as one of the founders\/creators of Cynism.
Richard Bruce `` Dick '' Cheney -LRB- born January 30, 1941 -RRB- is the current Vice President of the United States of America.
A Republican, he ran in the 2000 US Presidential Election with George W. Bush, and successfully won re-election in the 2004 US Presidential Election.
Cheney is from Wyoming and an active hunter.
Cheney is the head of the senate and has cast six tie-breaking votes. '
In 2006, he shot a friend by mistake while hunting.
HEADING Cardiac cycle
But feelings are really sensed in the brain.
The human heart has four chambers or closed spaces.
Tricuspid valve -- blood goes from right atrium to right ventricle
Mitral valve -- blood goes from left atrium to left ventricle
People sometimes talk about the heart as the place responsible for feelings.
This is why love is shown as a heart.
But feelings are really sensed in the brain.
The heart only helps us feel by giving blood to the brain.
You rule the minds of all people, and control India 's future.
Your name brings joy to Punjab, Sind, Gujarat and Maratha.
And also to Dravid and Orissa and Bengal.
-LRB- These are regions in India -RRB-
It also echoes in the Vindhya and Himalayan hills, and mixes with the music of Yamuna and Ganga rivers.
It is also sung by waves of the sea.
We pray for your blessings and sing your praise.
We look forward to your best wishes.
And we wish `` Victory '' for you.
A Dildo is an which a woman may put into her vagina, or a woman or man may put into her or his anus.
Sometimes dildos are shaped differently to provide better stimulation.
Alien can mean :
a person that is foreign, a foreigner
a person who enters a country illegally
an extraterrestrial being, a living being that is not from Earth, mostly appearing in fiction
Alien, a science fiction\/horror film by Ridley Scott, which was followed by other films, books, comics, video games
Mostly, it focuses on molecules like DNA.
Chemists have developed ways to understand the shape and behavior of small molecules, using mathematical analysis.
Biochemists today are trying to answer these questions about every single cell in the body :
The economy of India is the 12th largest in the world with a GDP -LRB- a year 's goods and services -RRB- of $ 568 billion -LRB- U.S. -RRB-.
If you consider PPP -LRB- how much that money can buy in India compared to other countries -RRB-, the economy is fourth largest -LRB- worth $ 3.319 trillion U.S. -RRB-.
The growth rate is 6.2%.
However, that is still only $ 3100 -LRB- considering PPP -RRB- per person per year.
India 's economy includes agriculture, handicrafts, industries, and a lot of services.
Services are the main source of economic growth in India today, though two-thirds of Indian people earn their living directly or indirectly through agriculture.
In recent times, due to its large number of well-educated people who can speak English, India sells a lot of computer programs to other countries.
For most of India 's independent history, it had strict government controls in many areas such as telecommunications -LRB- communication over long distances -RRB-, banking and foreign direct investment.
Since the early 1990s, India has slowly opened up its markets by reducing government control on foreign trade and investment.
The social and economic problems India faces are the increasing population, poverty, lack of infrastructure -LRB- buildings, roads, etc. -RRB- and growing unemployment.
Although poverty has gone down 10% since the 1980s, a quarter of India 's citizens still can not pay for enough food.
The economy of India is the 12th largest in the world with a GDP -LRB- a year 's goods and services -RRB- of $ 568 billion -LRB- U.S. -RRB-.
If you consider PPP -LRB- how much that money can buy in India compared to other countries -RRB-, the economy is fourth largest -LRB- worth $ 3.319 trillion U.S. -RRB-.
The growth rate is 6.2%.
However, that is still only $ 3100 -LRB- considering PPP -RRB- per person per year.
India 's economy includes agriculture, handicrafts, industries, and a lot of services.
Services are the main source of economic growth in India today, though two-thirds of Indian people earn their living directly or indirectly through agriculture.
In recent times, due to its large number of well-educated people who can speak English, India sells a lot of computer programs to other countries.
For most of India 's independent history, it had strict government controls in many areas such as telecommunications -LRB- communication over long distances -RRB-, banking and foreign direct investment.
Since the early 1990s, India has slowly opened up its markets by reducing government control on foreign trade and investment.
The social and economic problems India faces are the increasing population, poverty, lack of infrastructure -LRB- buildings, roads, etc. -RRB- and growing unemployment.
Although poverty has gone down 10% since the 1980s, a quarter of India 's citizens still can not pay for enough food.
They are the part of the body that produces sperm, and hormones, like testosterone.
In mammals, the testicles are located on the outside of the body, hang by the spermatic cord, and are in the scrotum.
This is because the production of sperm -LRB- spermatogenesis -RRB- is more efficient at a temperature somewhat less than the temperature of the body, which is 37 degrees Celsius -LRB- 99 degrees Fahrenheit -RRB-.
The cremasteric muscle is part of the spermatic cord.
When this muscle contracts, the cord becomes shorter, and pulls the testicle closer to the body, which makes it slightly warmer, to keep it at the proper testicular temperature.
When the testicles are too warm, the cremasteric muscle relaxes and the testicles are moved away from the warm body and are able to cool.
This is called the cremasteric reflex.
Stress can also cause this -LRB- the testicles move closer to the body in an evolutionary effort to protect them in a fight -RRB-, and they also contract during orgasm.
Normally, one testicle hangs lower then the other -LRB- usually the left -RRB-.
This is because of the differences in the testicles.
This is believed to be an evolutionary development to keep the testicles from hitting one another.
HEADING Function
Like the ovaries -LRB- which are homologous -RRB-, testicles are part of both the reproductive system -LRB- being gonads -RRB- and the endocrine system -LRB- being endocrine glands -RRB-.
The functions of the testicles are :
producing sperm -LRB- spermatozoa -RRB-
producing male sex hormones, of which testosterone is the best known
Both functions of the testicle, making sperm and hormones, are controlled by gonadotropic hormones produced by the pituitary gland :
luteinizing hormone -LRB- LH -RRB-
follicle-stimulating hormone -LRB- FSH -RRB-
HEADING Structure = =
Under a tough shell, the tunica albuginea, the testicle contains very small coiled tubes called the seminiferous tubules.
These tubes are lined with a layer of cells that, from puberty into old-age, produce sperm cells.
The seminiferous tubules lead to the epididymis, where new sperm cells mature, and then into vas deferens -LRB- also called the ductus deferens -RRB- which opens into the urethra.
When there is enough sexual arousal, the sperm cells move through the ejaculatory duct and into the prostatic urethra, where the prostate, through muscular contractions, ejaculates the sperm, mixed with other liquids, out the penis.
-LRB- The genital anatomy described here, with the neuroanatomy and hormonal systems that enable it to ejaculate, have as primary evolutionary functions, the impregnation of a fertile female of the same species -LRB- or a sufficiently close one -RRB-, by having sexual intercourse with her. -RRB-
Between the seminiferous tubules are cells called interstitial cells
-LRB- Leydig cells -RRB- where testosterone and other androgens are
made.
HEADING Testicular size
Testicular size compared to the weight of the body varies a lot.
In the mammalian kingdom, the testicles are usually larger when the when the species is more likely to be polygamous than monogamous.
Production of testicle output is also larger in the polygamous animal.
In normal adult men, the size of the testicles ranges from about 14 cm to bigger than 35 cm.
Measurement in the living adult is done in two basic ways : (1) comparing the testicle with small egg shaped objects, which we know the size of -LRB- orchidometer -RRB-, or (2) measuring the length, depth and width with a ruler, a pair of calipers, or ultrasound imaging.
The volume is then calculated, by using the formula for egg shaped objects : & pi ; \/ 6 × length × width.
Usually the testicles both have about the same size, but not exactly the same size.
To some extent it is possible to change the size of the testicles.
Without direct injury or subjecting them to adverse conditions, like higher temperatures than they are normally used to, they can be made smaller by competing against their hormone making function by using externally administered steroidal hormones.
Similarly, stimulation of testicle functions by using gonadotrophic-like hormones may make them bigger.
HEADING Health issues = =
The testicles are known to be very sensitive to impact and injury.
This has been a big source of humor for jokes and comedy routines.
Slang terms for testicles, like `` balls '', `` nuts '', or the Spanish `` cojones '' are often used to mean courage or audacity, as in `` He has balls to do that. ''
The most important diseases of testicles are :
inflammation of the testicles, called orchitis
testicular cancer and other neoplasms
accumulation of clear fluid around a testicle, called hydrocele testis
inflammation of the epididymis, called epididymitis
spermatic cord torsion also called testicular torsion
varicocele http://kidshealth.org/teen/sexual_health/guys/varicocele.html - swollen vein to the testes, usually affecting the left testicle
The removal of one or both testicles is termed
orchidectomy, in medicine -LRB- where orchiectomy and orchectomy are synonymous -RRB-, and
castration in general use, especially when done for the benefit of others than the subject, for example, to produce a high-voiced castrato from the castration of a pre-pubescent boy
For people, fake testicles are available to look and feel like testicles, when missing, because of injury or medical treatment.
HEADING Other names
Other names, often vulgar, for the testicle include :
HEADING See also
cryptorchidism -LRB- cryptorchismus -RRB-
infertility
List of homologs of the human reproductive system
orchidometer
spermatogenesis
sterilization -LRB- surgical procedure -RRB-, vasectomy
Epididymis
Testicles can be very big or very small.
In mammals testicles are bigger in animals who have many sex partners.
Having many sex partners is called being polygamous.
Animals that have only one sex partner at a time are monogamous.
More sperm is made by animals that are polygamous.
If a testicle makes more sperm it is bigger
Most men have testicles that are the same size.
They can be different size, but they are usually close in size.
In men normal testicles are from 14 cm to 35 cm.
Doctors measure the testicles ' volume two ways :
Orchidometer -- This is a set of small objects that look like eggs.
They are many different sizes.
The doctor picks the one that is the size of the testicle.
Doctors know what size the orchidometer is.
Then they know the size of the testicle.
Measuring size -- with a ruler, calipers, or ultrasound.
Then these lengths are used to calculate the volume.
Sometimes the size of the testicles changes.
Making them smaller :
Giving a man testosterone will make them smaller.
This is because the testicles do not have to work to make testosterone.
Making testicles more warm than usual can make them smaller.
When testicles are warm they make less sperm.
So if they are warm they get smaller.
Testicles can also be smaller if they get injured -LRB- hurt. -RRB-
Making them bigger :
Giving a man some hormones from the pituitary can make testicles bigger.
The pituitary hormones are called gonadotropins.
They are hormones that tell the testicles to make sperm and testosterone.
Testicles can be hurt very much if they are hit.
This is something people make jokes about.
There are many slang words for testicles.
Slang words are other names that are less formal.
Some slang words are `` balls '', `` nuts '', or in Spanish `` cojones ''.
People use slang words for testicles to mean brave or not having fear.
People say : He has balls.
This means he is brave.
Inflammation of the testicles.
This is called orchitis
Testicular cancer
Fluid around a testicle.
This is called a hydrocele
Inflammation of the epididymis.
This is called epididymitis
Spermatic cord torsion.
This is also called testicular torsion.
It means when the cord the testicle hangs from twists.
Varicocele http://kidshealth.org/teen/sexual_health/guys/varicocele.html - swollen veins to the testes.
Varicocele happens more on the left.
When a doctor removes a testicle it is called an orchidectomy.
It is also called an orchidectomy when a doctor removes both testicles.
This is also called castration.
In the past, people castrated boys before puberty.
They did this so the boys voices would not change.
These boys were called castrato.
Their voices stayed high.
If a man loses a testicle doctors can help.
Doctors can put in a testicular prosthesis.
This is a false testicle.
It is put in the scrotum.
It looks and feels like a testicle.
If both testicles are lost, a man can not have a baby.
He also does not have enough testosterone.
To stay healthy, he must take testosterone medicine.
Make sperm -LRB- spermatozoa -RRB-
Make male sex hormones -LRB- Testosterone is the best known male hormone. -RRB-
Cryptorchidism -LRB- cryptorchismus -RRB-
Infertility
Orchidometer
Spermatogenesis
Sterilization -LRB- surgical procedure -RRB-, vasectomy
The testicles, inside the scrotum, are covered with a tough type of protective skin called a membrane
The outside of the testicle is the.
Nearly all men have one testicle that hangs lower than the other one.
It can be either the left or the right that hangs lower.
Scientists think this may be so that they do n't hit against each other.
Nearly all men have one testicle that hangs lower than the other one.
It can be either the left or the right that hangs lower, but in 85% of men, it is the left one.
The left testicle usually descends first and this may affect which one hangs lower.
A spin-off is something new that comes from something already present.
It is frequently used for TV shows.
A spin-off TV show may have the same people, places, and ideas.
Some examples include :
Daria -LRB- spin-off from Beavis and Butthead, which was a spin-off from Liquid Television -RRB-
It is often used for video games, films and TV shows.
In much of the Western world and elsewhere, people believe something is very wrong with pedophiles.
Several groups work to make society more accepting of pedophiles.
Some of them want to make it legal for adults to have sex with children -LRB- but many groups do not want this, and even pedophiles often think that 's not a good idea -RRB-.
Supporters say that children 's bodies are different enough from adults ' bodies for a pedophile 's attractions to be considered different.
A pedophile is someone who is sexually attracted to children -LRB- of either sex -RRB- instead of adults or people their own age -LRB- for teenagers -RRB-.
In most of the world, people believe pedophilia is an illness, and its manifestation is child sexual abuse.
A pedophile is a sexually adult person who is sexually attracted to children who have not reached puberty, or who are not yet fully sexually adult.
A pedophile has a mental disorder called `` pedophilia ''.
Some people with pedophilia act out their sexual desires and have sex with children or use children in a sexual way.
This is called `` child sexual abuse ''.
Most, but not all, children who are sexually abused, are abused by people who have pedophilia.
Some pedophiles are sexually attracted to children but do not take action on their feelings to abuse children.
Medical researchers do not know how many people in the population are pedophiles.
Seto, M. C. (2004).
This is because it is hard to study the feelings that go on inside people unless they also do behavior that shows that they have those feelings.
A second reason is that when an adult or teenager sexually abuses a child, people often call the abuser a `` pedophile '', but it is possible that the abuse happened for a different reason.
A person is only a pedophile if they are sexually attracted to children.
If a person sexually abuses a child to frighten or punish them, for example, then it may not be true pedophile behavior.
The current approach to deal with pedophiles tries to change the behavior of the pedophile.
Using this treatment, some sex offenders can be prevented from offending again.
A pedophile is an adult who is sexually attracted to children who have not reached puberty, or who are not yet fully sexually adult.
Some people with pedophilia have sex with children or use children in a sexual way.
Some adults have pedophile feelings but do not act by sexually abusing children.
This is because it is hard to study people 's feelings and desires unless they actually show that they have those feelings.
Since the 1880s, psychologists have studied and shown that different pedophiles might act in different ways.Krafft-Ebing, R. von.
The people who abuse children or teenagers are often known to them, and are not strangers.
The common definition also says that a pedophile is at least 5 years older than the victim, and at least 16 years of age.
It is largely made up of the minerals Gibbsite Al -LRB- OH -RRB- 3, Boehmite - AlO -LRB- OH -RRB-, and Diaspore - AlO -LRB- OH -RRB-, together with the iron oxides Goethite and Hematite, the clay mineral Kaolinite and small amounts of Anatase TiO2.
HEADING Bauxite information
Sometimes doctors can diagnose a sickness by asking the person questions and looking at the person 's body.
The True Jesus Church was started during the early 20th century.
It is an independent Church.
It split from the Pentecostal movement in China.
The pentecostal movement is an evangelical movement within Christianity.
Currently their churches are found in forty two countries and six continents.
The movement has between 1.5 and 2.5 million followers.
Homer is one of the most popular and famous fictional characters and is thought of as one of the greatest comedic animated characters of modern times.
His voice began as a floopy impression of Walter Matthau, but turned into a more tough and humorous voice during the second and third season of the half-hour show, allowing Homer to express a larger range of emotions.
A five-year study of more than 2,000 middle aged people in France found a possible link between weight and brain function, named as the `` Homer Simpson syndrome ''.
Finlayson created the term as a form of lesser profanity to replace the word '' ! ''
Homer is very fat and lazy.
He is also an alcoholic.
He works as Safety Insepector of the Springfield Nuclear Power Plant.
Calcium compounds are also important in chemistry.
A Series of Unfortunate Events is a series of thirteen books written for children by Lemony Snicket.
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
This page has been vandalized !
It does not have 4 wheels like a car.
It has 2 wheels like a bicycle.
But it has a motor like a car.
Nowadays (2008), motorcycles -LRB- bikes -RRB- are used both for transportation and extreme sports.
Since motorcycles can be lighter than cars, they can accelerate more quickly.
On-road bikes -LRB- ones that are allowed on public roads -RRB- must have a special type of driver 's licence to be ridden legally.
Off-road bikes are not allowed with traffic on the road.
They are mammals and rodents.
Their scientific name is Cavia porcellus, which is cavies Porcellus in the genitive.
That is Latin for little pig.
Guinea Pigs are not pigs, nor are they from Guinea.
Guinea Pigs are not pigs.
Guinea Pigs are not from Guinea.
Besides being a pet and a source of food, in some places people think guinea pigs keep bad spirits away.
On May 6, 2005 Audioslave became the first American rock group to play in Cuba.
Because of American laws against trade with Cuba, this concert had to be allowed by US authorities.
It was first made by ancient Turks.
Yoghurt, or yogurt, is a dairy product made by bacterial fermentation of milk.
The lactose in the milk becomes lactic acid when it is fermented.
Lactic acid acts on the protein in the milk to make yoghurt thick and sour.
Yoghurt made from cow 's milk is called dairy yoghurt.
It is produced using a culture of Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp.
bulgaricus and Streptococcus salivarius subsp.
thermophilus bacteria.
The milk is heated to about 80 C to kill any bad bacteria and to change the milk proteins so that they set together instead of becoming curds.
After it is cooled to about 45 C, the bacteria culture is added, and the milk is kept at that temperature for 4 to 7 hours to ferment.
Soy yoghurt is made from soy milk.
People have been making and eating yoghurt for at least 5,400 years.
Today, it is eaten all over the world.
A nutritious food which is especially good for your health, it is rich in protein, calcium, riboflavin, vitamin B6 and vitamin B12.
HEADING History of the word
The word `` yoghurt '' comes from, Merriam-Webster Online - Yogurt entry and is related to the words yo urmak ` to knead ' and yo un `` dense '' or `` thick ''.
Ahmet Toprak 's article The letter was used to be written as `` gh '' when people translated the Turkish language.
This is because it used to be written a variant of the Arabic alphabet until Latin alphabet started being used in 1928, so it was harder to translate at that time.
In Bulgaria, yogurt is called '' '' -LRB- kiselo mlyako -RRB-, which means `` sour milk '' ; in Serbia, yogurt is also called '' '' -LRB- kiselo mleko -RRB-, but Serbian yogurt is a thick, milky liquid.
In English, there are many ways to spell the word.
In Australia and New Zealand `` yoghurt '' is the main.
`` yoghurt n. '' The Australian Oxford Dictionary, 2nd edition.
Bruce Moore.
Oxford University Press, 2004.
Oxford Reference Online.
Retrieved 24 May 2007.
`` yoghurt n. '' The New Zealand Oxford Dictionary.
Tony Deverson.
Oxford University Press 2004.
Oxford Reference Online.
Retrieved 24 May 2007.
In the United Kingdom `` yoghurt '' and `` yogurt '' are both used, but `` yoghurt '' is more common, and `` yoghourt '' is also sometimes used.
Peters, Pam (2004).
The Cambridge Guide to English Usage.
Cambridge : Cambridge University Press, pp.
587-588.
In the United States, `` yogurt ' '' is the usual spelling.
In Canada, `` yogurt '' is most common among English speakers, but many brands use `` yogourt, '' because it is correct in both French and English.
The word is usually said with a short o -LRB- -RRB- in the UK, with a long o -LRB- -RRB- in North America, Australia and South Africa, and with either a long or short o in New Zealand and Ireland.
HEADING History
The earliest yoghurts were probably made by wild bacteria and happened by chance.
Grigoroff, Stamen Étude sur une lait fermenté comestible.
Le `` Kissélo mléko '' de Bulgarie.
Revue Médicale de la Suisse Romande.
Genéve.
Georg & G., Libraires - Éditeurs.
Librairie de L’Universit é.
The oldest writings mentioning yogurt were by Pliny the Elder, who said that some people knew how to thicken the milk into something which was sour but tasty.
The Natural History of Pliny, tr.
John Bostock and H.T. Riley, London : Bell, 1856-93, Volume 3, p. 84 : `` It is a remarkable, that the nations which on milk have been for so many ages either of the of cheese, or else have it ; and yet they understand how to thicken milk and form there from an kind of milk with a ''.
The use of yoghurt by medieval Turks is recorded in the books Diwan Lughat al-Turk by Mahmud Kashgari and Kutadgu Bilig by Yusuf Has Hajib written in the 11th century.
Both texts mention the word `` yoghurt '' in different sections and describe how it was used.
Francis I suffered from a serious diarrhoea which no French doctor could cure.
His ally Suleiman the Magnificent sent a doctor, who cured the patient with yoghurt.
The grateful French king spread around the information about the food which had cured him.
Until the 1900s, yoghurt was eaten all the time by people in the Russian Empire -LRB- and especially Central Asia and the Caucasus -RRB-, Western Asia, South Eastern Europe\/Balkans, Central Europe, and India.
Stamen Grigorov -LRB- 1878 -- 1945 -RRB-, a Bulgarian student of medicine in Geneva, first examined the bacteria in Bulgarian yoghurt.
In 1905 he said that it contained a round and a rod-like lactic acid bacteria.
In 1907 the rod-like bacteria was called Lactobacillus bulgaricus -LRB- now Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp.
bulgaricus -RRB-.
The Russian Nobel laureate biologist Ilya Ilyich Mechnikov, from the Institut Pasteur in Paris, was influenced by Grigorov 's work and made a hypothesis that eating yoghurt regularly was the reason why Bulgarian peasants lived for so long.
Mechnikov believed that Lactobacillus was essential for good health, and worked to make yoghurt popular through Europe.
A Sephardic Jewish entrepreneur named Isaac Carasso industrialized the production of yoghurt.
In 1919, Carasso, who was from Ottoman Salonika, started a small yoghurt business in Barcelona and named the business Danone -LRB- `` little Daniel '' -RRB- after his son.
The brand later expanded to the United States under an Americanised version of the name : Dannon.
Yoghurt was first introduced to the United States by Armenian immigrants Sarkis and Rose Colombosian, who started `` Colombo and Sons Creamery '' in Andover, Massachusetts in 1929.
Colombo Yogurt was originally delivered around New England in a horse-drawn wagon inscribed with the Armenian word `` madzoon '' which was later changed to `` yogurt '', the Turkish name of the product, as Turkish was the lingua franca between immigrants of the various Near Eastern ethnicities who were the main consumers at that time.
Yoghurt 's popularity in the United States was enhanced in the 1950s and 1960s, when it was presented as a health food.
By the late 20th century yoghurt had become a common American food item and Colombo Yogurt was sold in 1993 to General Mills, which discontinued the brand in 2010.
HEADING Nutritional value and health benefits
Yoghurt is nutritionally rich in protein, calcium, riboflavin, vitamin B6 and vitamin B12.Yale-New Haven Hospital nutrition advisor - Understanding yogurt It has nutritional benefits beyond those of milk.
People who are moderately lactose-intolerant can enjoy yoghurt without ill effects, because much of the lactose in the milk precursor is converted to lactic acid by the bacterial culture.
Yogurt -- an autodigesting source of lactose.
J.C. Kolars et al., New England Journal of Medicine, 310:1 -3 (1984)
Yoghurt also has medical uses, in particular for a variety of gastrointestinal conditionsO.
Adolfsson et al., `` Yogurt and gut function '', American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 80:2:245 -256 (2004) http://www.ajcn.org/cgi/content/full/80/2/245 and in preventing antibiotic-associated diarrhea.
Ripudaman S. Beniwal, et al., `` A Randomized Trial of Yogurt for Prevention of Antibiotic-Associated Diarrhea '', Digestive Diseases and Sciences 48:10:2077 -2082 -LRB- October, 2003 -RRB- One study suggests that eating yoghurt containing L. acidophilus helps prevent vulvovaginal candidiasis, though the evidence is not conclusive.
Erika N. Ringdahl, '' Treatment of Recurrent Vulvovaginal Candidiasis '', American Family Physician 61:11 -LRB- June 1, 2000 -RRB-
Yoghurt is believed to promote good gum health, possibly because of the probiotic effect of lactic acids present in yoghurt.
`` Yogurt Good for Gums, Health '', dentalblogs.com -LRB- February 26, 2008 -RRB-
A study published in the International Journal of Obesity -LRB- 11 January 2005 -RRB- also found that the consumption of low-fat yoghurt can promote weight loss.
In the trial, obese individuals who ate 3 servings of low-fat yoghurt a day as part of a low-calorie diet lost 22% more weight than the control group who only cut back on calories and did not have extra calcium.
They also lost 81% more abdominal fat.
Dairy augmentation of total and central fat loss in obese subjects
Galician -LRB- Galician : Galego -RRB- is a language that is spoken in the Spanish province of Galicia, just north of Portugal.
Galician is a Romance language that started on the old part of the Roman Empire called Gallaecia.
The Galician of today comes from the Galician-Portuguese language.
Galician-Portuguese was spoken during the Middle Ages, but is not spoken anymore.
It became two different languages : Portuguese and Galician.
Today, Galician is spoken only in Galicia and by some people in South America.
Some people say Galician and Portuguese are the same language, because there are very few differences between them.
Many people have one name called a ` family name ' or ` surname ' or ` last name ' which is each person in the family have.
This name helps people know which family a person is in.
Many people also have a name which is chosen just for that person.
That name can be called a ` given name ' or a ` first name '.
Some people also have another name called a ` middle name ' because it comes in the middle, between the first name and the family name.
People have used names for many years, at least since a King in Egypt named ` Sekhen ', whose name was written with the heiroglyphic sign for a scorpion.
A person 's given name can be chosen in different ways.
Some people have a given name that is the same as another person in the family.
Some people have a given name that is the same as a person many people know, like a King or President.
A person 's name might change when the person has a marriage.
For example, in the United States a woman might change her last name to last name of the man she marries.
Recording companies often spend a lot of time and money in discovering new or developing the talent of artists they already have signed up with a contract.
Many artists have had albums changed or censored in some way by the labels before they are released -- songs being edited, artwork or titles being changed, etc..
muscular dystrophy, cancers like Ewing 's sarcoma, and cardiomyopathy are myopathies.
MP3 are computer files used to store sounds, usually music.
Albinism is a condition some people and animals are born with.
This condition is caused by a lack of pigment -LRB- color -RRB- in their hair, eyes, and skin.
A person or animal with albinism is called an Albino.
Albinos usally have white hair and skin, and pinkish or blue eyes.
Like many other conditions, people with albinism are looked as weird and often protrayed negativly in movies and TV shows.
Albinos in reality do have some problems including sight problems and skin problems.
Animals who are albinos, are easily attacked by predators because they can not hide themselves like the non-albino members of their species.
On various forms Caucasian usually means a specific combination of external physical attributes, especially light skin.
These people originally came from Europe.
Martin Van Buren 's wdnt to school at the academy in the village where he lived.
He left when he was 14 years old
He worked in Later he was placed in the law office of Francis Sylvester.
He the office, copied documents and did other jobs.
While he was working there, he learned about law.
He became a lawyer.
In 1821 he became a senator for the United States Senate.
In 1827, President Andrew Jackson made him the Secretary of State, who Jackson found to be a good advisor.
In 1832, he became Vice-President for Jackson, and in 1836, he became the 8th President of the USA.
He lost in the next presidential elections in 1840.
In 1848, he ran again to be president, but he did not win.
He died in 1862.
HEADING References
People who think a woman should be able to have an induced abortion sometimes say they are Pro-Choice -LRB- they think a woman should have the right to choose. -RRB-
Some people feel very strongly about abortion.
Some people have attacked or bombed the clinics -LRB- places where doctors help people -RRB- and killed people in these places.
They have done this because they think that a fetus or embryo is as important as a baby.
Many people do not think that a fetus or embryo is as important as a baby.
This is different from an early birth, as it is linked to the death of the unborn child, called an embryo -LRB- first 8 weeks of pregnancy -RRB- or fetus -LRB- after 8 weeks -RRB-.
The American Medical Association makes a difference between a foetus, an embryo and a baby.
Some people share this opinion.
Abortion is a term describing a pregnancy that ends early -LRB- before 40 weeks -RRB- without the birth of a child.
HEADING Kinds of abortions
There are two types of abortions.
A spontaneous abortion is when the fetus or embryo dies inside the womb.
This is also called a miscarriage.
An induced abortion is when a person does something to end the life of the fetus or embryo.
In both types of abortion, the fetus or embryo is usually expelled from the womb -LRB- a complete abortion -RRB-.
In some cases, the fetus or embryo remains inside the womb -LRB- a missed abortion -RRB- and surgery is required to remove it.
About 15% of pregnancies end in spontaneous abortion.
In many cases, the woman is not even aware she is pregnant.
The pregnancy is only a few days or weeks old and the woman believes the miscarriage is just her menses.
About 25% percent of all women will have a spontaneous abortion during their lives.
The number of induced abortions done are different for different parts of the world.
This is also true for the reasons why women decide to have an abortion.
Estimates are that about 46 million induced abortions are done worldwide, every year.
26 million of them occur in places where abortion is legal, 20 million happen in countries where it is illegal to have an abortion.
Some countries, like Belgium -LRB- 11.2 per 100 known pregnancies -RRB- and the Netherlands -LRB- 10.6 per 100 -RRB- have a low rate of induced abortion.
Others, like Russia -LRB- 62.6 per 100 -RRB- and Vietnam -LRB- 43.7 per 100 -RRB- have a comparatively high rate.
Overall, there are 26 induced abortions per 100 known pregnancies.
In 1998, a study was done in 27 countries.
This study wanted to find the reasons, why women wanted to end their pregnancy.
It found that women often gave one of the following reasons :
Worries about their work or their education
Incertainty about how to pay for the child they were going to have
Worries about the stability of the relationship with their partner.
Feeling that they were not yet mature enough to have a child.
A different study, done in the United States in 2004 came to similar conclusions.
Reasons U.S. women have abortions : quantitative and qualitative perspectives.
HEADING Personal and social factors for abortions
HEADING Numbers and reasons for induced abortions
There is a hypothesis that induced abortion raises the risk of getting breast cancer.
People who support this, call it a link, rather than a hypothesis.
The subject has been controversial, but currently, scientists agree that there is no link between abortion in the first trimester, and increasing the risk to get breast cancer.
In early pregnancy, levels of estrogen increase.
This causes the breast to grow, and to prepare for lactation.
In the 1890s, studies were done on rats, before this hypothesis was put forward.
Researchers from the of California, San Francisco -RRB- published a study in the Journal of the American Medical Association.
The study analyzed data from dozens of medical reports and other studies.
The researchers concluded that unborn children are unlikely to feel pain until the third trimester of pregnancy.
Pain can have many different aspects : It might be purely relying on sensory input, but it might also involve emotions and thought.
For this reason, it is perhaps impossible to know exactly when the unborn child feels pain, even if it has developed the links in the thalamus.
A Essential reproduction -LRB- Blackwell 2000 -RRB- : `` The multidimensionality of pain perception, involving sensory, emotional, and cognitive factors may in itself be the basis of conscious, painful experience, but it will remain difficult to attribute this to a fetus at any particular developmental age. ''
It talks about whether a person loves -LRB- sexually and romantically -RRB- people of the same sex, of the opposite sex, or both.
His songs include `` Born to Run '' and `` Born in the USA ''.
Jon Landau, a music writer for Rolling Stone magazine, once said : `` I have seen the future of rock and roll, and its name is Bruce Springsteen. ''
Springsteen won an Oscar for his song `` Streets Of Philadelphia '', written for the Tom Hanks ' film Philadelphia.
A living thing is called intersexual or intersex if it is born with genitalia and\/or secondary sex characteristics that are not male or female.
It may also be born with both male and female genitalia and\/or secondary sex characteristics.
doctors sometimes can not tell if an intersexual baby is a boy or a girl.
About 1% -LRB- 1 in 100 -RRB- of babies are born with some intersex condition.
They may not even be found until the child is in puberty or is an adult.
About 0.1 -- 0.2% -LRB- 1-2 in 1000 -RRB- of babies are born with an important intersex condition.
Many intersexed people do not like to be called hermaphrodites because they think the word is old-fashioned when used to refer to people.
It is also not politically correct or kind, and people want the word to stop being used in this way.
Most of these are genetic conditions, meaning people born with these conditions have a gene that works differently.
The most common condition that causes intersexuality is Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia.
This is a condition that causes female fetuses to look male.
This is because the babies ' adrenal gland produces higher levels of androgen hormones -LRB- hormones that act like testosterone -RRB-.
The female fetuses have genitals that look male.
They may have a penis instead of a clitoris, and they may have a scrotum instead of a labia.
Doctors and parents may not even see that the baby is intersexed, they may just think the baby is a boy.
But even though the baby looks like a boy, it really has female chromosomes.
Some doctors believe before that intersexed babies needed to have surgery to fix their genitals, thinking that babies would have many problems if they did not have genitals that looked only male or female.
Most babies have surgery to make them look female, because surgery to make them look female is an easier thing to do.
When these people become adults some of them are very unhappy about the surgeries because they do not identify with the gender people chose for them.
Some people who had surgery to make them look female have a male gender identity.
Some people who had surgery to make them look male have a female gender identity.
Some intersexed people 's genitals do not work properly, making them unhappy.
On the other hand, there are other intersexed people who are happy with the surgery they had.
They think that if they had to be children with genitals that did not look like a boy or a girl, life would have been harder.
If they knew this, choosing a baby 's physical gender would be very easy.
There are some intersex conditions where the gender identity is usually one way.
But it is not easy to tell with some intersex conditions.
If a baby has an intersex condition that can come with either gender identity, some doctors now say they should not do surgery early.
They say they should wait until the baby is older, then the child, adult or teenager can tell doctors his or her gender identity.
HEADING Intersex, transgender and LGBT
On one hand, some intersexed people say they are transgender or part of the LGBTQ community Some people even call the community LGBTI to include intersex people.
On the other hand, some intersex people say they are not transgender or part of the LGBTQ community.
This is because these groups have some things in common, but not all things.
Some people also believe that transgender is a kind of intersex.
They believe that transgender people have brains that are physically like the other sex, since the brain is an organ that is different in men and women.
Colonpoo
Mouthchicken blubber goes poo
At about this time, he began to write about politics and workers ' struggles.
It is famous as a destination and an agricultural region.
Many people visit the area and enjoy the pleasant weather during tourist season, which is from September to June.
Although the area is a desert, there are lots of water both under the ground and in aqueducts from the Colorado River.
The weather is so similar to weather in the Middle East that the area grows more than 95% of the nation 's crop of dates.
The Palm Springs Aerial Tramway brings visitors from the floor of the valley to the top of Mount San Jacinto, 8516 feet -LRB- 3000 metres -RRB- up !
It tells the adrenal gland to make aldosterone -LRB- which tells the kidneys to save salts -RRB-.
For example, we can make the word unsimple, which splits up into not simple.
Nationality means of what nation -LRB- country -RRB- a person is a citizen.
This fluid is usually a cloudy white.
Semen clots almost immediately after ejaculation, forming a sticky, jelly-like liquid, helping it adhere to the cervix -LRB- the entrance to the uterus, located at the end of the vagina -RRB-.
Sperm remains relatively immobile within this clot.
It will liquefy again in 5 to 40 minutes becoming runny and clear, allowing it to enter gradually through the cervical canal.
PSA -LRB- prostate specific antigen -RRB-, a constituent of prostatic fluid is responsible for dissolving the clot, liberating the sperm, and so making them much more active.
It is quite normal for semen to form jelly-like globules and this does not indicate any health or fertility problem.
It is not uncommon to see a yellowish tint to the semen if you 've abstained from ejaculation for a while.
Semen is made up of 40-60 percent of fluid from the seminal vesicles, 13 to 33 percent from the prostate, 5 percent from the testicles and epididymes, and 5 percent from the bulbourethral and urethral glands.
Semen itself has high concentrations of potassium, zinc, citric acid, fructose, phosphorylcholine, spermine, free amino acids, prostaglandins and enzymes, which nourish and protect the sperm.
An ejaculation contains 40 million to 600 million sperm.
Different sexually transmitted diseases, such as HIV, gonorrhea, chlamydia, nongonococcal urethritis -LRB- NGU -RRB- and cytomegalovirus -LRB- CMV -RRB- can all be transmitted through semen.
Semen tastes salty and smells like chlorinated pool water.
Semen clots almost immediately after ejaculation, forming a sticky, jelly-like liquid.
This function helps it adhere to the cervix -LRB- the entrance to the uterus, located at the end of the vagina -RRB- after heterosexual vaginal sex.
Semen makes a clot almost right after ejaculation, forming a sticky, jelly-like liquid.
This function helps it stick to the cervix -LRB- the entrance to the uterus, located at the end of the vagina -RRB- after intercourse.
Sperms remain relatively immobile within this clot.
Semen liquefies again in 5 to 40 minutes, becoming runny and clear, allowing it to enter the uterus gradually through the cervical canal.
PSA -LRB- prostate specific antigen -RRB- is a constituent of prostatic fluid which is responsible for dissolving the clot, freeing the sperm, and so making them much more active.
HEADING Appearance
Semen is usually a white fluid which gets yellowish if it is left for a while after the ejaculation.
Normal semen may form jelly-like globules and this is not a sign of any health or fertility problem.
Semen tastes salty and smells like chlorinated pool water.
HEADING Production
About 40 to 60 percent of semen is made in the seminal vesicles, 13 to 33 percent is produced by the prostate, 5 percent in the testicles and epididymes, and 5 percent in the bulbourethral and urethral glands.
A normal ejaculation contains at least 2ml of semen, which contains 40 million to 600 million sperm.
HEADING Clinical importance
HEADING References
Apart from pornographic films showing people having sex, semen is usually not shown in films as many people think that doing so is obscene -LRB- not decent -RRB-.
Semen of men born in Brooklyn, named David have the healthiest semen on the planet earth.
Studies have shown that their semen can cause swallower instant mental clarity and insight.
The Ku Klux Klan -LRB- acronym KKK -RRB- is an organization which was first founded -LRB- started -RRB- in the South of the USA after the American Civil War to protest against the new government.
During this time, there were troops based in the ex-Confederacy states.
The Klan was scared that the population in the South could loose their democratic rights.
Also the Klan members believed that African Americans were inferior to -LRB- less than -RRB- white people.
The Klan acted against black people, but Republicans were also targets of attacks by the clan.
The methods of acting against people were often the same : the Klan members tried to frighten the people that the Klan wanted to go out of town.
The KKK tried to deny their human rights by burning crosses or threatening them.
If people did not react, the Klan killed them.
The growing violence which was celebrated by the KKK led to many lynchings -LRB- killing a person by hanging them from a rope around their neck. -RRB-
The Klan was a large problem.
The KKK was prohibited -LRB- made against the law -RRB- in 1871.
After 1871 many KKK members were imprisoned -LRB- put in jail. -RRB-
However, the Klan had achieved many of its original goals, for example the troops were moved out of the southern states.
In 1915 the Klan was founded -LRB- started -RRB- for a second time.
Targets of attacks were again black people, but also Jews and Catholics.
In 1920 growing economic problems caused the Klan to get much bigger.
The KKK proclaimed -LRB- said strongly -RRB- the `` white supremacy '' again and again.
`` White supremacy '' says that people who are white -LRB- from European origins -RRB- are better than other racial groups.
The Klan killed many blacks.
These were not legal executions.
There was no law trial.
An African American -LRB- black -RRB- person who the Klan did not like was murdered.
This is a kind of terrorism.
The KKK used fear to control African Americans and take away their human rights.
In the middle of the 20 's the Klan got smaller because bad leaders and so much violence.
In 1954 the United States Supreme Court -LRB- the highest court in the US -RRB- made an important decision.
The case was Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas.
The court ruled -LRB- decided -RRB- that it was not legal to have different schools for black and white children.
When the Supreme Court ruled that the separation of blacks and whites on schools is against the American Constitution the Klan became bigger and stronger.
The KKK began again to attack and threaten black people.
In the latest years the Klan still burns down churches where black people go.
In the summer of 1964 Edgar Ray Killen killed three African Americans that participated in the Civil Rights Movement.
Killen was a member of the Ku Klux Klan.
In 1988 a movie was made which talked about the events of this case.
In 2005 there was another trail.
Killen -LRB- now 80 years old -RRB- was sentenced to prison for 60 years.
The Ku Klux Klan is a loved group of vigilantes, which was started in the South, the first disbanded, but others have been created.
The people from the north of the USA were stealing from the good people in the south and were using african americans to do it.
Also the Klan members believed that African Americans were inferior to -LRB- less than -RRB- white people, which is a popular belief.
The KKK tried to do this without hurting anybody by burning crosses or threatening them.
If people did not react, the Klan killed them because they were thieves.
The Klan was a large group.
After 1871 many KKK members were put in jail, but were let out because they did right.
Targets of attacks were again black people, but also Jews and Catholics, because they were bad people.
The Klan killed many blacks because blacks ganged up on white people.
An African American -LRB- black -RRB- person who the Klan thought was a murderer like was hanged.
This is a kind of vigilantism.
The KKK used fear to control African Americans and take away their evil thoughts.
The Ku Klux Klan -LRB- acronym KKK -RRB- is an organization which was created in the South of the United States in 1865.
This was after the American Civil War.
It was made to protest against the new government.
The Klan acted against black people.
Republicans were also targets of attacks by the clan.
The KKK tried to scare people by burning crosses or by threatening them.
The KKK was `` prohibited '' -LRB- made against the law -RRB- in 1871.
After 1871 many KKK members were imprisoned -LRB- put in jail -RRB- However, the Klan had achieved many of its original goals.
For example, the troops were moved out of the Southern states.
It was not until the early 1970s that all US public schools were integrated -LRB- the opposite of segregated -RRB-
Crackers most often eaten as a snack, or crumbled into soup.
Many surgeons are experts in certain areas ; for example, a surgeon that operates on bones is called an orthopaedic -LRB- orth-o-pae-dic -RRB- surgeon.
Doctors who do surgeries are called surgeons.
The toppings people use are different in different parts of the world.
pizza is good to eat
especialy afteryou poop
This is the name for a special type of flat bread, made with special dough.
Because of this, the pizza was made at home, and then given to the town bakery to bake.
At first, pizza was just an Italian dish, especially in Naples, as Italians immigrated pizza became an dish after World War I.
In the 20th century, pizza has become an international food and the toppings may be quite different in accordance with local tastes.
These pizzas consist of the same basic design but include many choice of ingredients, such as anchovies, egg, pineapple, banana, coconut, sauerkraut, eggplant, kimchi, lamb, couscous, chicken, fish, and shellfish, meats prepared in styles such as Moroccan lamb, shawarma or chicken tikka masala, and non-traditional spices such as curry and Thai sweet chili.
Pepperoni is a meat food that is sometimes sliced very thinly and put on pizza.
Sometimes Chile peppers are called pepperoni
It is a kind of salami, which can be quite spicy.
A button is a fastener that keeps your shirt closed.
A button is something that sticks up from a flat surface, and when you push it, it makes something happen.
A button is a picture on a computer monitor that is pressed with a mouse to make the computer do something.
A button is a fastener that keeps your shirt or pants closed.
The more things the computer has to do at once, the more time it has to spend deciding which to give more time to, and the less time each one receives.
This tends to make the computer perform its tasks more slowly.
Biologists study plants and animals.
There are many different kinds of biologists.
Some study fish and ocean plants.
They are called marine biologists.
Others study very small bacteria or viruses.
Other scientists study groups of animals.
People who look at DNA in cells are called geneticists.
Some biologists study using cells in factories and companies, and that is called biotechnology.
Movies, television shows and Books that tell made-up stories about the future are called science fiction.
She has appeared in the sitcom Ellen and is the host of The Ellen Degeneres Show.
She is a lesbian and her coming out caused a controversy among many people that watched her television show.
Ball and chain is a slang term for a person 's.
On December 25, 2005, Something Awful critiqued Simple English Wikipedia for it 's poorly-written articles, which are rife with non sequiturs -LRB- something that does not fit in with the article -RRB- and editor bias.
Something Awful is a really bad comedy website and forums.
People have to pay too much money to join the forums to talk with other people around the world.
Something Awful is a comedy website and forums.
People have to pay money to join the forums to talk with other people around the world.
It currently costs $ 99.95 -LRB- US Dollars -RRB- to join.
It currently costs $ 199.95 -LRB- US Dollars -RRB- to join.
It currently costs $ 1 bajillion -LRB- US Dollars -RRB- to join.
A nightclub is a space where people enjoy themselves.
They sometimes have dancing and usually serve alcoholic drinks.
It has the symbol K. This word is derived from the Latin word kalium.
Potassium is a silvery white metal that tarnishes in air and produces an oxidized layer on the surface and this is why it is stored in oil.
It has the symbol K. This symbol is derived from the Latin word kalium.
The Simpsons is an American television program that is an animated comedy, created by a man who has the name Matt Groening.
The Simpsons is an American television program that is an animated comedy, created by Matt Groening.
Homer Simpson, the Jewish father, who is lazy and works at a power plant
Marge Simpson, the Catholic mother, a housewife
Marge Simpson, the Buddhist mother, a housewife
Charles Montgomery `` Monty '' Burns, Homer 's greedy, evil boss
Moe Szyslak, a grumpy bartender who works at Homer 's favorite
Lenny Leonard and Carl Carlson, two of Homer 's coworkers
Krusty the Klown, TV star and host of a popular Children 's \/ Comedy\/Variety show who smokes and drinks a lot
He was married to Selma once, who has tried to kill Bart several times, and has gone to prison.
They broke up in 2000 and the band members that played instruments formed the band Audioslave with Chris Cornell, that was singing for Soundgarden.
Zack de la Rocha - singing
Dolphins are mammals of the order Cetacea, the whales.
Dolphins are mammals of the order Cetacea, the Whales.
HEADING Geographical information
HEADING Historical information
HEADING Political information
Tajikistan is a very small country in central Asia.
It is west of China.
It is north of Afghanistan, east of Uzbekistan and south of Kyrgyzstan.
Tajikistan is a long way away from the sea.
It is in the middle of the continent of Asia.
Tajikistan 's borders are 3,651 km long.
The Pamir Mountains are in the south of the country.
The climate there is semiarid to polar.
The Pamir Mountains are often called ` the roof of the world.
The mountains have an area of about 120,000 km.
There are other countries within the mountain range.
The mountains are between 3600 to 4400m high.
HEADING Geography
It is slightly smaller than Wisconsin in The United States.
HEADING History
The land that is now Tajikistan has been lived in continuously since 4,000 BC.
It has been under the rule of various empires throughout history, mostly the Persian Empire.
In the year 800, Islam came to Tajikistan.
In the year 1991 Tajikistan became independent.
There was a great civil war between the Islamic Fundamentalists, and the Government of Emomali Rachmonow.
At the end of the war the government was ruled by the Fundamentalists.
After the September 11, 2001 attacks, many American and French Soldiers came into the country.
Tajikistan is a President 's Republic.
The capital is Dushanbe.
The official language is Tajiki-Persian.
Tajikistan is also a member of the Commonwealth of Independent States, the CIS.
The climate has hot summers and mild winters.
Almost all of the country -LRB- 85 percent -RRB- is mountainous with river-valleys running across, however high altitude mountains of Pomir are in the eastern part of the country, -LRB- which is beginnings of Hymalayas in the west -RRB-.
There are other countries within the mountain range.
The land that is now Tajikistan has been lived in since 4,000 BC.
But because he was unable to bring any much needed reforms to the country, there were protests in the capital city, Dushanbe.
The government responded by organising a pro-government demonstration, mainly made of old Communist Party members and people from the southeast of the country brought to the city.
Anti-government protests did not stop, so the government gave weapons to the pro-government demonstrator.
Then the Opposition to armed themselves.
After this bloody civil war broke out.
In which all of the new democratic parties, political organizations and movements together with the political Islamic movements created an alliance, opposing the old communist government and southerners.
Tajikistan is a republic.
It later became a part of the Soviet Union.
Then the Opposition armed themselves.
Fear is the body 's way of protecting itself from possibly dangerous situations.
and u can fear someone
Bullets have many uses but are mostly used as a weapon in war and for shooting targets as a sport.
Bullets can be used to kill people.
They can also be found in dead bodies, or jewelry.
Creationism is the belief that God or another higher form created the universe, like it says in the Bible, Torah, Koran, or other religious books.
Some people do not believe their religious book to be word-for-word true, and say God used evolution to create life.
Others believe that evolution alone created life.
CreationWiki - a wiki made by people who believe in creationism
Creationism is the belief that God -LRB- or another higher form -RRB- created the universe, like it says in the Bible, Torah, Qur ` an, or other religious books `` Creationists '', people who believe in creationism, often attack evolution, which explains that generations of organisms change slowly over time to be better able to live in their environment.
This is because evolution says that all today 's living things came about from simple organisms changing slowly over time.
Creationists believe that life was created much as it is today, and that one form of life can not change into another.
There are things that show evolution, such as fossils, the remains of living things that died long ago.
Older living things seen in fossils are different from the life we see today, and can be put into order to show changes over time.
Creationists say that this and other things are not enough.
Scientists and the United States courts say that creationism is not science.
The National Center for Science Education 's collection of statements by scientific societies in support of evolution.
Most of them explicitly reject creationism.
Currently, Islam takes religious texts literally.
Many scholars say that Genesis is a corrupted version of God 's message.
There is also a creation myth in the Qu ` ran, but it is more vague than Genesis.
This allows for more interpretation.
Islam also has its own school of Evolutionary creationism\/Theistic evolutionism, which says that mainstream scientific analysis of the origin of the universe is supported by the Qur ` an.
Khalid Anees, president of the Islamic Society of Britain attended a conference called ` Creationism : Science and Faith in Schools '.
During that conferemce, he made points including the following : There is no contradiction between what is revealed in the Koran and natural selection and survival of the fittest.
Like the movement in Christtianity, Islamic creationists are concerned that the findings of evolutionary theory might contradict what is written in the Qu ` ran.
The beginner clarinet player usually can play a note within the first ten minutes of instruction as sound production is relatively easy to other musical instruments.
The body of the clarinet is a cylindrical tube with holes.
The reed is attached to the mouthpiece with a clamp called a ligature, which is usually made out of metal.
Blowing through the mouthpiece makes the reed shake, and therefore makes the noise.
In North America, the most popular clarinet is the clarinet pitched in B-flat.
A beginner clarinet player usually can play a note within the first ten minutes of instruction.
Making a sound with the clarinet is easier than making a sound with many other musical instruments.
Most instrumental music teachers consider it to be a good instrument for young players.
The fingering system is very similar to the flute and the saxophone, so changing from playing the clarinet to one of these instruments is not too difficult after the student is comfortable playing the clarinet and has reached a certain level.
The lute is a kind of musical instrument
The programs are aimed at all computer s. There are differrent versions of the software for home users and business users, which contain different programs and are different in price.
The programs are aimed at all computer s. There are differrent versions of the software for home users and business users.
Some versions may offer more programs and some versions cost less than others.
In the Mac version of Office, it is called Microsoft Entourage and it has many of the same features.
HEADING Micorsoft Access
Microsoft Access is a database program where people can store data over many tables.
HEADING Micorsoft Publisher
Microsoft Publisher is a program that lets people make layouts for newsletters and presentations to print.
The Bronx is a part of New York City, United States.
HEADING Uses
Triangles are extremely useful, because the ratio of the length of sides to an angle is always the same.
Measuring objects using triangles is called Trigonometry.
Some people have spent their entire lives studying triangles for use in trigonometry.
Modern computers usually use triangles to make more complex graphic images or shapes.
The three angles of a triangle always add up to 180 degrees.
There are many reasons why some people do not like feminism.
Some people do not like feminism because they think that women are already equal in the law.
Some say that feminism wants women to be more important than men.
Other people do not like feminism because it wants to change society and it could make men have less power.
Anti-feminists often say that society is also not equal for men and that women have more rights about children, divorce, etc.
There are people who do not like feminism because they think it gives people rights that hurt other people or their rights.
And they have made a social group on the outside of society that does not like men and wants to take over men 's power.
For example, in the Bible, it says that God made Eve -LRB- the first woman -RRB- as a companion for Adam -LRB- the first man -RRB- and people think this means he made women to serve and be ruled by men.
There are many reasons why some people do not like feminism :
Some people do not like feminism because they think that women are already equal or more important in the law.
Anti-feminists often say that society is also not equal for men and that women have more rights about children, divorce, etc.
Some people do not like feminism because it wants to change society and it could make men have less power.
Also, they have made a social group on the outside of society that does not like men and wants to take over men 's power.
But, not all religious people think this and some feel that God created men and women to be equal so that feminism is actually a very good thing.
There are also many other types of anti-feminism.
2010 -LRB- MMX -RRB- is a common year that started on a Friday in the Anno Domini\/Common Era with the Gregorian calendar, and is the current year.
Its metropolitan area makes it the largest urban division in the state.
Professional sports teams that make their home in or near Cleveland include the Cleveland Indians, who play baseball ; the Cleveland Browns, who play football ; and the Cleveland Cavaliers, who play basketball.
Cleveland is one of the important industrial centers of the United States.
Dentition is the development of teeth and where the teeth are in the mouth.
Almost all mammals have up to four different types of teeth : incisors, canines, premolars, and molars.
Mammals that have different types of teeth are called `` heterodont ''.
If they do not, they are called `` homodont ''.
In many mammals, the children have a set of baby teeth that fall out.
When they fall out, adult teeth grow in.
Animals that have baby teeth and adult teeth are called diphyodont.
HEADING Dentition in the study of history
Dentition is important to people who study history.
This is even more important if they are studying older things.
Dentition is used to see where people moved, because people from different place have different teeth.
HEADING References
HEADING Other websites
Colorado State 's dentition page
Dentition is used to see where people moved, because people from different places have different teeth.
The White House is the official residence and principal workplace of the President of the United States.
Located at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW in Washington, D.C., the house was designed by Irish-born James Hoban, White House History, http://www.whitehouse.gov/about/History/ and built between 1792 and 1800 of white-painted Aquia sandstone in the Neoclassical style.
It has been the residence of every U.S. President since John Adams.
When Thomas Jefferson moved into the house in 1801, he -LRB- with architect Benjamin Henry Latrobe -RRB- expanded the building outward, creating two colonnades that were meant to conceal stables and storage.
In 1814, during the War of 1812, the mansion was set ablaze by the British Army in the Burning of Washington, destroying the interior and charring much of the exterior.
Reconstruction began almost immediately, and President James Monroe moved into the partially reconstructed house in October 1817.
Construction continued with the addition of the South Portico in 1824 and the North in 1829.
Because of crowding within the executive mansion itself, President Theodore Roosevelt had all work offices relocated to the newly constructed West Wing in 1901.
Eight years later, President William Howard Taft expanded the West Wing and created the first Oval Office which was eventually moved as the section was expanded.
The third-floor attic was converted to living quarters in 1927 by augmenting the existing hip roof with long shed dormers.
A newly constructed East Wing was used as a reception area for social events ; Jefferson 's colonnades connected the new wings.
East Wing alterations were completed in 1946, creating additional office space.
By 1948, the house 's load-bearing exterior walls and internal wood beams were found to be close to failure.
Under Harry S. Truman, the interior rooms were completely dismantled and a new internal load-bearing steel frame constructed inside the walls.
Once this work was completed, the interior rooms were rebuilt.
Today, the White House Complex includes the Executive Residence, West Wing, Cabinet Room, Roosevelt Room, East Wing, and the Old Executive Office Building, which houses the executive offices of the President and Vice President.
The White House is made up of six stories -- the Ground Floor, State Floor, Second Floor, and Third Floor, as well as a two-story basement.
The term White House is regularly used as a metonym for the Executive Office of the President of the United States and for the president 's administration and advisers in general.
The property is owned by the National Park Service and is part of the President 's Park.
In 2007, it was ranked second on the American Institute of Architects list of `` America 's Favorite Architecture. ''
HEADING References
The White House is the home and main workplace of the President of the United States.
The house was designed by Irish-born James Hoban.
White House History, http://www.whitehouse.gov/about/History/ It is located at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW in Washington, D.C..
The building was built between 1792 and 1800 of white-painted Aquia sandstone in the Neoclassical style.
It has been the home of every U.S. President since John Adams.
When Thomas Jefferson moved into the house in 1801, he -LRB- with architect Benjamin Henry Latrobe -RRB- expanded the building outward.
They made two colonnades that were meant to hide stables and storage.
In 1814, during the War of 1812, the mansion was set on fire by the British Army in the Burning of Washington.
The fire destroyed the inside of the house and much of the outside.
Reconstruction began almost immediately.
President James Monroe moved into the partially reconstructed house in October 1817.
Because of crowding within the executive mansion itself, President Theodore Roosevelt had all work offices moved to the newly constructed West Wing in 1901.
Eight years later, President William Howard Taft expanded the West Wing and created the first Oval Office.
This was eventually moved as the section was expanded.
The third-floor attic was changed into living quarters in 1927.
A newly built East Wing was used as a reception area for social events.
Jefferson 's colonnades connected the new wings.
East Wing changes were completed in 1946.
These changes made more office space.
Under Harry S. Truman, the interior rooms were completely taken apart and a new internal load-bearing steel frame was built inside the walls.
Once this work was done, the interior rooms were rebuilt.
As Portuguese and Spanish are both Romance languages, they have a lot of things in common, but they are not the same.
On the other hand, it is more rare that a Spanish speaker would understand a Portuguese speaker.
Hurricane Katrina was a hurricane that did much damage to the Louisiana city of New Orleans on August 29, 2005.
Almost 1,000 people were killed by the storm.
It was the most expensive natural disaster in the history of the United States -LRB- at $ 200 billion in damage -RRB-.
Over 1,000 people were killed by the storm.
The United States ' response was clearly disorderly.
Katrina was at its worst in New Orleans - 80% of the citizens were killed - those who survived were left with no transport to evacuate them to safe areas.
The bass guitar or bass is a string instrument.
The bass guitar is shaped like an electric guitar except that it is longer than an electric guitar.
The bass guitar produces lower tones than the electric guitar.
The bass guitar is used to play low musical sounds called `` bass lines '' in many styles of music such as rock music, pop music, country music, and jazz fusion music.
HEADING History
The bass guitar was invented in the 1950s.
Until the 1950s musicians played the double bass in jazz, blues, folk, and early rock music.
The double bass was big and heavy.
Musicians wanted a smaller and lighter instrument.
Inventors tried to think of ways of building a smaller and lighter bass instrument.
One of these inventors was a man named Leo Fender in the United States.
Leo Fender invented the bass guitar in the 1950s, using many parts that are similar to the parts of an electric guitar.
Leo Fender called the instrument the `` Fender Precision Bass ''.
HEADING Description
Bass guitars are usually made out of wood.
Bass guitars have a few main pieces such as a body, neck, fingerboard, frets, and strings.
The body is made out of wood.
A wooden fingerboard is then glued onto the neck.
Thin metal strips called frets are glued onto the fingerboard.
In the 1960s and 1970s some musicans took the frets off of their bass guitars.
Taking the frets off of a bass guitar changes the sound of the bass guitar.
A bass guitar without frets is called a fretless bass guitar.
In the 1970s and 1980s, some bass guitar makers began to offer bass guitars with five or six metal strings.
Bass guitars with five or six strings can play a lower range of tones than a bass guitar with four strings.
HEADING How a bass guitar works
Bass guitars also have magnetic pickups mounted on the body underneath the strings.
A musician plucks the strings with their fingers.
This makes the strings vibrate.
The magnetic pickups detect the vibrations.
The musician uses a volume control to make the sound loud or quiet.
The volume control is a knob that the musician rotates to make the sound of bass guitar loud or quiet.
The musician uses a volume control knob that is located on the body of the bass which a musician rotates to make the sound of a bass guitar loud or quiet.
12 of the world 's 18 highest mountain peaks are in Nepal.
It has recently become a secular country, but it used to be the only Hindu nation in the world.
Nepal is a very important pilgrimage place for both Hindus and Buddhists.
Nepali is the official language and there are many other regional languages.
English and Hindi are widely understood.
The capital city of Nepal is Kathmandu.
The second largest city is Pokhara.
Pokhara has many lakes, including Phewa Tal.
It could also mean :
A fin is a surface used to produce lift and thrust or to steer while traveling in water, air, or other fluid media.
The word was first used for the limbs of fish, but it is now included when describing other animal limbs and man-made devices.
When someone needs to use a method, they do so by calling it.
A method allows the object to perform an action, whether this action is to modify itself or to return a value.
An example is :
public int getOne -LRB- -RRB- -LCB-
return 1 ;
This syntax is identical between programing languages such as Java and C #.
The public identifier means that this method is publically accessible, that anyone is allowed to use this.
In comparison, a method may be private or sometimes protected, the latter of which means only specific parts of the same program are allowed to use this method, and never a human user.
A privately accessible method only allows the object it belongs to to edit it.
This is used to give data security.
The int indentifier means that the return type is an integer value.
A toolbox or toolkit is a box where a person stores tools.
You can find them where people work with tools like houses that are being built.
Some computer programs used to make other computer programs are also called toolboxes or toolkits -LRB- this is a metaphor -RRB-.
At first, 1 kilobyte was 1,024 bytes.
Now some people say a kilobyte only has 1,000 bytes, and the correct name for 1,024 bytes is a kibibyte.
One byte is equal to eight bits.
HEADING Abbreviation
`` Byte '' is properly abbreviated as uppercase `` B ''.
Sometimes it is incorrectly abbreviated as lowercase `` b '' ; lowercase `` b '' is the abbreviation for `` bit ''.
For example, `` MB '' means `` Megabyte '' and `` Mb '' means `` Megabit ''.
The difference is important because 1 Megabyte -LRB- MB -RRB- is 1,000,000 bytes, and 1 Megabit -LRB- Mb -RRB- is 1,000,000 bits.
It 's easy to confuse the two, but bits are much smaller than bytes, so a lowercase `` b '' should be used when referring to `` bits '' and an uppercase `` B '' when referring to `` bytes ''.
HEADING Byte Chart
According to the International Electrotechnical Commission -LRB- IEC -RRB-, who sets many computer standards, these charts show how bytes should be referred to.
HEADING `` kilo - '' = 1,000 bytes
When using standard metric names like `` kilo - '', `` mega - '' and `` giga - '', they should follow the same measure that other metric measurements use, like kilometer -LRB- 1 kilometer = 1,000 meters -RRB- for example.
HEADING `` kibi - '' = 1,024 bytes
Since computers are digital devices that are based on the binary numeral system rather than the commonly-used decimal numeral system, there are many situations where the standard metric system does n't work well, particularly with USB drives and other types of flash memory or RAM.
People who refer to 1 Kilobyte as 1,024 bytes, for example, are technically incorrect ; 1,024 bytes should be referred to as 1 Kibibyte, according to the IEC.
She is the wife of the President George W. Bush.
They married in 1977.
She is the mother of Barbara and Jenna Bush.
Cacti can be found many times in their sculptures and drawings, especially Echinocactus grusonii.
The national coat of arms of Mexico show the eagle, snake and cactus.
From their first discovery by Europeans in America, cacti have caused much interest.
Christopher Columbus brought the first melocactuses to Europe, and in the 17th century Scientists became very interested in them.
Cacti have enjoyed several times of popularity, when everyone wanted `` new '' cacti.
Prickly pears -LRB- Opuntia -RRB- were taken to Australia in the 19th century for use as a natural fence and to start a cochineal dye industry.
The cactus spread out of control and became an bad weed.
This invasive species can not be eaten by local wild animals, and it has made 40,000 km of land useless for farming.
From the start of the 20th century interest in cacti has grown.
A bad effect of this bigger interest has been the digging up of many cacti from the wild, making them endangered.
A good effect has been more exploration to find new species.
All cacti are covered by CITES, the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, and many species are protected by it.
Some countries have complex laws for species protection.
In Mexico, a person caught digging up cacti will go to prison, but cactus habitats are destroyed for new roads and electricity lines.
Cacti are commonly grown as pretty plants for the garden or as a houseplant.
They are often grown in dry areas and raised rockeries.
Some areas, such as in Australia, limit water use, so desert plants are popular.
Echinopsis, Mammillaria and Cereus are some of the many popular garden plants.
Cacti are commonly used in place of fences in dry areas, where there is little material or money.
Cacti are not just grown for looks.
Some cacti bear tasty fruit, such as the prickly pear and Hylocereus, which produces Dragon fruit or Pitaya.
Prickly pear cactus are food for the cochineal insect, which produces a red dye used in food and lipstick.
In South America the wood of dead pillar cacti are used for building.
The Native Americans of North America use cacti in rituals.
She also directed British troops in 1983 to recapture the Falkland Islands from Argentina, which had captured them for a short time, in the Falkland War.
Margaret Hilda Thatcher, Baroness Thatcher LG, OM, PC, FRS -LRB- born Margaret Hilda Roberts October 13, 1925 -RRB- was the first woman Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, a post she held from 1979 to 1990.
Leader of the Conservative Party from 1975 to 1990, she is often remembered by her nickname, `` the Iron Lady ''.
Stop motion is a way of animation which makes it look like still objects are moving.
Boolean algebra is algebra with variables -LRB- things which can be changed -RRB- that have only two states.
Most Libyans are muslims.
Libya gets nearly all of its money from producing oil.
Its economy is growing fast.
It also had many effects on the history of America and Britain.
Inflation is measured each year, and the inflation rate is one of the most important indicators of the state an economy is in.
England was also lucky that it had many of the raw materials needed to make and power the new machines close by within its borders.
At the time of the industrial revolution slavery was practiced in many British empire lands, this supplied a source for some of the money which could be spent on building the new industries.
This meant that instead of things being hand made in small workshops, they were made more cheaply in large quantities in factories using machines.
Many people began to move from a agricultural based life to the towns where the factories offered better paid work.
The Industrial Revolution began in Great Britain in the middle of the 18th century, and spread to Europe and the America by the early 19th century.
The steam engine, invented by James Watt around 1776 was used to power the factories and pump out the deeper mines.
Some historians see the period called the industrial revolution as finishing about 1820, but they agree this was only the start of change in the way we make things, which continues right up to the present time.
It built on a new spirit of studying things through science.
The 17th century, was a period called the Enlightenment by historians during which people asked more questions about the way the world worked.
Living standards rose and people generally became richer and healthier and had more children who survived to be adults.
This led a strong growth in the number of people in England, which led into new social problems.
It replaced horses and human labor.
New ideas and inventions were also taken up and used in mining, the working of metals, and in the transportation of goods.
They added to the move to the industrial towns where they sought out work in factories.
Vista needs at least 1 GB of RAM to run smoothly.
HEADING Vista Editions and System Requirements = = Vista was released in
November 2006 for businesses and January 2007 for
consumers -LRB- home users -RRB-.
Its editions available to retail stores are : the
Home Basic Edition, Home Premium Edition,
Business Edition, and Ultimate Edition.
There are 2
special versions called Home Starter Edition, and
Home Starter is basically the same as XP
Starter, and is for low budget countries.
Vista needs at least 512
MB of RAM to run on all computers.
Some new parts of Vista need
1 GB of RAM to work.
HEADING Vista Editions and System Requirements
Vista was released in
It includes many small programs which are called gadgets such as a calendar which the user can put events on, and the computer will alert the user when those events are near.
The canlendar is simular to the bonzi buddy program.
Windows vista is the first operating system for Microsoft to re-word things to make it a lot more simple.
Microsoft have said that windows vista can run older programs but there had been some compatibilty issues and a lot of companies had made a newer version of the program so that windows vista is supported.
Vista was released in November 2006 for manufacturing and janurary 30 2007 for home users.
The four main editions of windows vista are :
To run windows vista you need at least all the specs on the vista basic side for vista to work but to get the best performance, the computer needs the requirements on the vista premium side.
The same release date of the two operating systems showed the merging of the workstation and server kernels back into a single code base for the first time since Windows 2000.
Federal Reserve : A group of economic policymakers and forecasters -LRB- people who say what might happen in the future -RRB-, the Federal Reserve Board sets an interest rate related to economic conditions.
The Fed, as the Federal Reserve is often called, sets interest rates which form part of monetary policy.
When the Federal Funds rate is increased, the Fed makes borrowing more expensive, which means people and companies spend less and discourages inflation.
When economic growth slows, the Fed decreases the Fed Funds rate so that borrowing will increase and there will be growth.
The Federal Reserve -LRB- sometimes called `` The Fed '' -RRB- is a large central bank that loans money to other smaller banks.
The Federal Reserve Board is a group of financial leaders who work for `` The Fed '' and decide how much to charge these banks for borrowing money -LRB- this charge is called an `` interest rate '' -RRB-.
The Federal Reserve interest rate is decided by the Board after studying the condition of the US Economy.
When the economy is growing too fast, the Fed makes borrowing more expensive by increasng the interest rate, which means people and companies spend less and discourages inflation.
When economic growth slows, the Fed decreases the interest rate so that borrowing will increase and there will be growth.
Oklahoma -LRB- -RRB- is a state that is in the southern part of the Central United States.
It had a population of about 3,600,000 people in 2006.
The state has a land area of about.
Oklahoma is the 28th largest state by population.
It is the 20th largest state by area.
The name of the state comes from the Choctaw words okla and humma.
It mean `` Red People ''.
It is also known by its nickname, The Sooner State.
Oklahoma is a large producer of natural gas, oil and food.
The state has one of the fastest growing economies in the nation.
Between 2005 and 2006, it had the third highest percentage of income growth and the highest percentage in gross domestic product growth.
Oklahoma City and Tulsa are the main economic areas of Oklahoma.
Almost 60 percent of Oklahomans live in these two metropolitan statistical areas.
The cultural heritage of Oklahoma is affected by a population descending from German, Irish, British and Native American people.
More than 25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma.
This is more than in any other state.
In the past, the state was used as a path for cattle drives, a place for southern settlers, and a government-made territory for Native Americans.
Oklahoma is one of the most politically conservative states, but voter sign-up is largest for the Democratic Party.
Oklahoma has only been a state for a little over a century but its history is much longer.
Arrow heads from the Clovis Indians who traveled through Oklahoma have been found near Anadarko.
These arrow heads are about 11,000 years old.
During the 1830s, the Five Civilized Tribes were forced to move from the southeastern United States to Indian Territory -LRB- now Oklahoma -RRB- on the Trail of Tears.
During the American Civil War -LRB- 1861-1865 -RRB-, several Indian tribes sided with the Confederacy.
The tribes owned slaves.
They agreed with the ideas of the states that from the United States.
Also, the tribes were not happy that the federal government did not do what it told them it would do.
Some tribes had taken control of several forts.
This caused much of the Indian Territory to be under Confederate control, but Oklahoma did not become a Confederate state.
The Battle of Honey Springs near Fort Gibson on July 17, 1863 was won by the Union forces.
This ended the Confederate control of Indian Territory.
On April 22, 1890, the western part of the state was opened to almost 50,000 settlers for the Oklahoma Land Run.
During this land run Oklahoma got its nickname, `` The Sooner State ''.
The nickname came from the settlers who crossed the territory 's borders before the land was opened by the government.
A year later, the western part of the territory was turned into Oklahoma territory.
The northeastern part, which was home to the Five Civilized Tribes, stayed under the control of the tribes.
On November 16, 1907, the western and eastern territories joined together.
They became the 46th state of the United States.
The oil pools found in the area caused the population of towns to grow very fast.
Tulsa became known as the `` Oil Capital of the World '' for most of the 20th century.
The oil was a large part of the state 's early economy.
In 1927, Tulsa businessman Cyrus Avery, known as the `` Father of Route 66 '', began a movement to make U.S. Route 66.
Avery used section of highway that was already built between Tulsa and Amarillo, Texas to make the original portion of Highway 66.
He was the main person responsible for making the U.S. Highway 66 Association to watch over the building of Route 66.
During the 1930s, northwestern Oklahoma went through the Dust Bowl.
The area had little rainfall and high temperatures.
This caused thousands of farmers to go into poverty and forced them to move to other parts of the United States.
From 1930 to 1950, the state saw its only loss in population.
It lost 6.9 percent of the people who lived there.
Because of the Dust Bowl, the state made hundreds of reservoirs and man-made lakes.
By the 1960s, more than 200 man-made lakes had been made.
This is the most in the United States.
It was a great success and was made into a movie in 1955.
is sung near the end of the musical.
It was made the official song of the state in 1953.
On April 19, 1995, the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City was bombed by Timothy McVeigh.
168 people were killed in the bombing.
McVeigh and his partner, Terry Nichols, were both convicted of the attack.
Many people think other people were involved.
McVeigh was later sentenced to death by lethal injection.
His partner, Nichols, was convicted of 161 counts of first degree murder.
Nichols is spending the rest of his life in prison without the chance of parole.
The name Oklahoma comes from the Choctaw phrase okla humma.
This means red -LRB- humma -RRB- people -LRB- okla -RRB-.
Okla humma was a phrase in the Choctaw language that meant the same as the English word Indian.
It was used to describe the Native American people all together.
Oklahoma later became the de facto name for Oklahoma Territory.
It was officially accepted in 1890, two years after the area was opened to white settlers.
It covers an area of -LRB- are land and are water -RRB-.
The state is partly in the Great Plains near the center of the 48 continental states.
It shares borders with Arkansas, Missouri, Kansas, Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas.
The highest point in the state is Black Mesa, in the Panhandle at.
The lowest point is Little River east of Idabel in the southeast part of the state at above sea level.
There are four mountain ranges in Oklahoma.
They are the Ouachita, Arbuckle, Wichita and Kiamichi ranges.
All of the ranges are in the southern part of the state.
The state is also known for having more man made lakes than any other state in the country.
These lakes cover one million surface-acres with water.
Oklahoma is in a temperate area of the country.
The state sometimes sees extreme temperatures and rain that is commonly found in a continental climate.
All of the state frequently has temperatures above or below.
It does snow in Oklahoma.
In the northwest near the Colorado border, the area can get nearly in snowfall during the winter.
The southeastern part of the state usually gets less than in snowfall.
This is because there is a lot of contact between cold and warm air masses which makes severe weather.
Oklahoma has an average of 54 tornadoes each year.
This is one of the highest rates in the world.
The state is home to the National Storm Prediction Center of the National Weather Service.
It is located in Norman.
Oklahoma had 549 populated places in 2006.
It had three cities over 100,000 in population and 40 over 10,000.
Two of the fifty largest cities in the United States are in Oklahoma.
They are Oklahoma City and Tulsa.
Oklahoma City is the state 's capital and largest city.
It had 1,269,907 people living inside its metropolitan area in 2008.
Oklahoma law says that populated areas are broken into two groups.
Cities are areas with more than 1,000 people.
Towns have fewer than 1,000 people.
Both have legislative, judicial, and public power inside their populated areas.
Cities can choose between a mayor-council, council-manager, or strong mayor form of government.
Towns are run through an elected officer system.
Oklahoma has minor league sports teams in basketball, football, arena football, baseball, soccer, and hockey.
These teams are in Oklahoma City, Tulsa, Enid, and Lawton.
Tulsa is home to the Tulsa 66ers.
They are part the NBA Development League.
The Tulsa Revolution, playing in the American Indoor Soccer League is also in Tulsa.
The NBA 's New Orleans Hornets became the first major league sports team to play in Oklahoma.
This happened after the team was forced to move to the Ford Center in Oklahoma City for two seasons after Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
In July 2008, the Seattle SuperSonics moved to Oklahoma City.
The team said they would play their games at the Ford Center under the new team name Oklahoma City Thunder.
They are the state 's first permanent major league team.
Oklahoma 's state symbols are recognized by state law.
The Oklahoma Senate or House of Representatives may add others for special events and to help organizations.
It snows in Oklahoma.
It became a democracy in 2008.
Since 1948 this unit is called Celsius.
HEADING History
-- -RRB-
In 1742, Anders Celsius -LRB- 1701 -- 1744 -RRB- created a `` reversed
'' version of the modern Celsius temperature scale whereby zero represented the boiling point of water and 100 represented the melting point of ice.
In his paper Observations of two persistent degrees on a thermometer, he recounted his experiments showing that ice 's melting point was effectively unaffected by pressure.
He also determined with remarkable precision how water 's boiling point varied as a function of atmospheric pressure.
He proposed that zero on his temperature scale -LRB- water 's boiling point -RRB- would be calibrated at the mean barometric pressure at mean sea level.
This pressure is known as one standard atmosphere.
In 1954, Resolution 4 of the 10th CGPM -LRB- the General Conference on Weights and Measures -RRB- established internationally that one standard atmosphere was a pressure equivalent to 1,013,250 dynes per cm2 -LRB- 101.325 kPa -RRB-.
In 1744, coincident with the death of Anders Celsius, the famous Swedish botanist Carolus Linnaeus -LRB- 1707 -- 1778 -RRB- effectively reversed Citations : Thermodynamics-information.
net, A Brief History of Temperature Measurement and ; Uppsala University -LRB- Sweden -RRB-, Linnaeus ' thermometer Celsius 's scale upon receipt of his first thermometer featuring a scale where zero represented the melting point of ice and 100 represented water 's boiling point.
His custom-made `` linnaeus-thermometer, '' for use in his greenhouses, was made by Daniel Ekström, Sweden 's leading maker of scientific instruments at the time and whose workshop was located in the basement of the Stockholm observatory.
As often happened in this age before modern communications, numerous physicists, scientists, and instrument makers are credited with having independently developed this same scale ; Citation for Daniel Ekström, Mårten Strömer, Christian of Lyons : The Physics Hypertextbook, Temperature ; citation for Christian of Lyons : Le Moyne College, Glossary, -LRB- Celsius scale -RRB- ; citation for Linnaeus ' connection with Pehr Elvius and Daniel Ekström : Uppsala University -LRB- Sweden -RRB-, Linnaeus ' thermometer ; general citation : The Uppsala Astronomical Observatory, History of the Celsius temperature scale among them were Pehr Elvius, the secretary of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences -LRB- which had an instrument workshop -RRB- and with whom Linnaeus had been corresponding ; Christian of Lyons ; Daniel Ekström, the instrument maker ; and Mårten Strömer -LRB- 1707 -- 1770 -RRB- who had studied astronomy under Anders Celsius.
The first known documentCitations : University of Wisconsin -- Madison, Linnæus & his Garden and ; Uppsala University, Linnaeus ' thermometer reporting temperatures in this modern `` forward '' Celsius scale is the paper Hortus Upsaliensis dated 16 December 1745 that Linnaeus wrote to a student of his, Samuel Nauclér.
In it, Linnaeus recounted the temperatures inside the orangery at the Botanical Garden of Uppsala University :
``... since the caldarium -LRB- the hot part of the greenhouse -RRB- by the angle
of the windows, merely from the rays of the sun, obtains such heat
that the thermometer often reaches 30 degrees, although the keen
gardener usually takes care not to let it rise to more than 20 to 25
degrees, and in winter not under 15 degrees... ''
For the next 204 years, the scientific and thermometry communities world-wide referred to this scale as the `` centigrade scale. ''
Temperatures on the centigrade scale were often reported simply as `` degrees '' or, when greater specificity was desired, `` degrees centigrade. ''
The symbol for temperature values on this scale was C -LRB- in several formats over the years -RRB-.
Because the term `` centigrade '' was also the Spanish and French language name for a unit of angular measurement -LRB- one-hundredth of a right angle -RRB- and had a similar connotation in other languages, the term `` centesimal degree '' was used when very precise, unambiguous language was required by international standards bodies such as the Bureau international des poids et mesures -LRB- BIPM -RRB-.
The 9th CGPM -LRB- Conférence générale des poids et mesures -RRB- and the CIPM -LRB- Comité international des poids et mesures -RRB- formally adopted `` degree Celsius '' -LRB- symbol : C -RRB- in 1948.
According to The Oxford English Dictionary -LRB- OED -RRB-, the term `` Celsius 's thermometer '' had been used at least as early as 1797.
Further, the term `` The Celsius or Centigrade thermometer '' was again used in reference to a particular type of thermometer at least as early as 1850.
The OED also cites this 1928 reporting of a temperature : `` My altitude was about 5,800 metres, the temperature was 28 Celsius. ''
However, dictionaries seek to find the earliest use of a word or term and are not a useful resource as regards the terminology used throughout the history of science.
According to several writings of Dr. Terry Quinn CBE FRS, Director of the BIPM -LRB- 1988 -- 2004 -RRB-, including Temperature Scales from the early days of thermometry to the 21st century -LRB- 148 kB PDF, here -RRB- as well as Temperature -LRB- 2nd Edition \/ 1990 \/ Academic Press \/ 0125696817 -RRB-, the term Celsius in connection with the centigrade scale was not used whatsoever by the scientific or thermometry communities until after the CIPM and CGPM adopted the term in 1948.
The BIPM was n't even aware that `` degree Celsius '' was in sporadic, non-scientific use before that time.
It 's also noteworthy that the twelve-volume, 1933 edition of OED did n't even have a listing for the word Celsius -LRB- but did have listings for both centigrade and centesimal in the context of temperature measurement -RRB-.
The 1948 adoption of Celsius accomplished three objectives :
1 -RRB- All common temperature scales would have their units named after someone closely associated with them ; namely, Kelvin, Celsius, Fahrenheit, Réaumur and Rankine.2 -RRB- Notwithstanding the important contribution of Linnaeus who gave the Celsius scale its modern form, Celsius 's name was the obvious choice because it began with the letter C. Thus, the symbol C that for centuries had been used in association with the name centigrade could continue to be used and would simultaneously inherit an intuitive association with the new name.3 -RRB- The new name eliminated the ambiguity of the term `` centigrade, '' freeing it to refer exclusively to the French-language name for the unit of angular measurement.
For lay-people worldwide -- including school textbooks -- the full transition from centigrade to Celsius required nearly two decades after this formal adoption.
The term `` The Celsius or Centigrade thermometer '' was again used to refer to a particular type of thermometer at least as early as 1850.
This unit was created by Anders Celsius -LRB- 1701-1744 -RRB-, a Swedish astronomer.
0 degrees -LRB- -RRB- Celsius is the melting point of water at standard pressure.
100 Celsius is the boiling point of water at standard temperature.
To make a temperature in degrees Celsius into kelvins a person must add 273.15.
For example 0 degrees Celsius, which is the temperature at which water freezes, is 273.15 kelvins.
To make a temperature in kelvins into degrees Celsius a person must subtract 273.15.
For example 310 K is the same temperature as 36.85 C, which is about the temperature of a human body.
0 degrees -LRB- -RRB- Celsius is the melting point of water at temperature.
It gave Napoleon a reason to start a hereditary dynasty.
People of the French did n't see him as the monarch of the old regime because his holding a Roman position that has the glory related to it.
He invited Pope Pius VII to see his coronation at Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris.
To ensure well-trained officials and military officers, he promoted a system of public schools under firm government control.
Napoleon had no choice but to in favor of his son.
However, the Allies refused to accept this.
Napoleon abdicated without conditions on April 11, 1814.
Before his official abdication, Napoleon attempted suicide with a pill but it did n't work.
HEADING Birth and education
Napoleon Bonaparte was born in Casa Buonaparte in the town of Ajaccio, Corsica, on 15 August 1769.
This was one year after the island was given to France by the Republic of Genoa.
McLynn 1998, p. 6 He was the second of eight children.
He was named Napoleone di Buonaparte.
He took his first name from an uncle who had been killed fighting the French.
Bresler 1999, p. 15 -- 16 However, he later used the more French-sounding Napoléon Bonaparte.
The Corsican Buonapartes were from lower Italian nobility.
They had come to Corsica in the 16th century.
McLynn 1998, p. 2 His father Nobile Carlo Buonaparte became Corsica 's representative to the court of Louis XVI in 1777.
The greatest influence of Napoleon 's childhood was his mother, Maria Letizia Ramolino.
Her firm education controlled a wild child.
Cronin 1994, p. 20 -- 21 He had an older brother, Joseph.
He also had younger Lucien, Elisa, Louis, Pauline, Caroline and Jérôme.
Napoleon was baptized as a Catholic just before his second birthday, on 21 July 1771 at Ajaccio Cathedral.
The number of people in the city is about 53,000.
Wetzlar is near Frankfurt.
Wetzlar is famous for their historic Oldtown and for Goethe.
The camera maker Leica is located here.
Wetzlar has good connections to the German Autobahn with three junctions.
Confucianism has an unsimple system of moral, social, political, and religious thought that has had a large influence on the history of Chinese civilization until a few years ago.
Software hoarding is the act of an individual or software company to restrict the use and modification of their software.
Software hoarding is when a person or a software company tries to stop some people from using or sharing their software.
Exposure to lead should be avoided -- it is very toxic to humans and other animals.
We say something is simple either when it is very easy to understand, or when it is humble -LRB- lowly -RRB- or common, or when it is not made up of several parts.
Thus `` simple living '' is a way of life that takes the ideas of Henry David Thoreau or Epicurius or Diogenes as its ideals -LRB- moral goals -RRB-, saying that you need only few and simple things to be happy.
A Simpleton is a person who is stupid and understands only very simple things.
The measurement of how simple something is is simplicity.
A simpleton is a person who is stupid and understands only very simple things.
HEADING See also
This is what a complex template says :
The opposite of is difficult.
When a penis -LRB- or article -RRB- is too hard, a -LRB- -RRB- is used.
2 +2 is a very hard sum -LRB- a hard sum -RRB-.
Boiling an egg is very hard -LRB- very hard -RRB-.
North Carolina is connected to South Carolina on the south, Georgia on the southwest, Tennessee on the west, Virginia on the north, and the Atlantic Ocean on the east.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints -LRB- also known as the Mormon church -RRB- is a Christian religion.
The people that belong to this religion are called Latter-day Saints or Mormons.
It was started by Joseph Smith, Jr. in 1830 in the United States.
The first of these visits is called the First Vision.
It happened in the spring of 1820 when Joseph was 14 years old.
In the bright light, he said that he saw God the Father and Jesus Christ.
They told him not to join any church, because every church of that time had some mistakes in what they believed.
They also told him that they had work for him to do.
Part of the work that Joseph did was translating the Book of Mormon.
Joseph said that an angel named Moroni visited him and showed him where a very old book was buried.
This book was written on pages of gold -LRB- sometimes called the Golden Plates -RRB-.
It was buried in a stone box on the side of the `` Hill Cumorah '', a hill near Joseph 's home.
Moroni visited Joseph once a year for four years until he told Joseph to take the Golden Plates.
Since the book was written in a very old language, Joseph translated the book into English.
He did this with help from God.
The book was published as The Book of Mormon in 1830.
It tells the story of two main groups of people who lived in North and South America hundreds of years ago.
It also teaches many things about Jesus.
To members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, The Book of Mormon is a special book from God just like the Bible.
By reading the Book of Mormon and the Bible, people can learn how to get closer to God and how to find happiness in life.
This book is also the reason church members are sometimes called `` Mormons. ''
Today the center of the church is in Utah, but there are more than 12 million Mormons living all over the world.
The leader of the church is called the president, and Mormons call him a prophet.
They believe that God guides the prophet, just like He guided Joseph Smith.
Mormons believe that it is important for families to spend a lot of time together, and that after they die, they can live together forever.
They meet once a week on Sunday for church, where they have the sacrament and listen to short talks or sermons.
They also have Sunday School to learn more.
Mormons also have buildings called temples.
Only Mormons that are living good lives can go in the temple.
This is because the temple is the most holy building in their religion.
These people have made other Mormon churches.
In the beginning of the church, this was different.
A man could be married to more than one woman at the same time -LRB- called polygamy -RRB-.
He went to the woods behind his family 's house in New Yorkto pray.
He felt evil powers fighting him and was rescued when a bright light appeared above him.
It was buried in a stone box on the side of the `` Hill Cumorah ''.
This was a hill near Joseph 's home.
It tells the story of two groups of people who lived in North and South America hundreds of years ago.
This book is also why church members are sometimes called `` Mormons. ''
Mormons do not drink alcohol, coffee, or some kinds of tea.
They do not smoke tobacco.
They also have Sunday School to learn more about their religion.
Mormons have buildings called temples.
Only Mormons that are living good lives can go into the temple.
Their teachings were influenced by the Christian religion, but they can not easily be classified in terms of Catholic or Protestant groups.
Other Christians generally see this as a problem, because the Mormons have different views in some key areas, where most of the other Christian churches agree.
Some other Christians see this as a problem, because Mormons have believe different things in some areas where most other Christian churches agree.
For example, Mormons do not believe in the concept of the Trinity.
They believe God, Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost are three separate Gods.
Mormons also believe people can be baptized for the dead.
It was buried in a stone box in a hill near Joseph 's home.
Mormons believe that by reading The Book of Mormon and the Bible, people can learn how to get closer to God and how to find happiness in life.
They believe that God guides the prophet, just like He guided Joseph Smith and the prophets in the Bible.
The Church also has activities during the week.
Mormons also have buildings called temples.
These are the most holy buildings in their religion.
After a temple has been dedicated, only Mormons that are living good lives can go in the temple.
Some of the basic beliefs are :
Because of Him, we will live after we die.
We also can be saved from our sins -LRB- or mistakes -RRB-.
The Holy Ghost helps us to know what is the truth.
The most basic parts of the gospel are faith in Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism by immersion, and receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost.
The authority to act in the name of God exists in His Church today, just as it did in the original Church.
God talks to prophets today, and they teach others.
This is the same as in the Old Testament of the Bible.
Our life has an important purpose.
Families can be together even after we die.
By doing things for others, we can be happy and be closer to God.
At first it was called The Church of Christ.
Today there are about 70 groups who call themselves Mormon.
The biggest movements are The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Community of Christ and the Church of Christ with the Elijah Message.
When people talk about Mormons, they often mean the followers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
This movement also says that the term Mormon should only be used for its members, and that other movements should be called Latter day Saints.
Style Guide - The Name of the Church
HEADING Where cider is made
Cider is made almost anywhere where there are cider-apple trees, most notably
France is the country in the world that produces the biggest quantity of cider.
HEADING Kinds of Cider
Bison live in the northern part of the world.
They live to be about 20 years old and are born without their `` hump '' or horns, which both males and females have.
After shedding their light colored hair, and with their horns, they are grown at 2 to 3 years of age, but the males keep growing slowly until about age seven.
Adult bulls are very dominant in mating season.
They used to wander around the prairies of North America in huge herds, but now, because of hunting, only a few thousand are left.
HEADING References
Pet hamsters like to live in cages with wood shavings or sawdust, recycled newspaper, straw on the bottom, and eat mostly hamster food sold at a pet store, but they also eat almost any vegetables.
They can not eat citrus, watermelon, grapes, or garlic.
They need a water bottle to drink from and something to chew on to trim their teeth, because they grow constantly.
if they do n't like chewing you 'll have to cut their teeth -LRB- top only -RRB-.
Wooden blocks can be used for this, but toilet paper rolls and pieces of cardboard also work.
They can not eat citrus, watermelon, grapes, candy, or garlic.
Wooden blocks and some hard foods -LRB- they do n't do a better job than an chewing block -RRB- can be used for this, but toilet paper rolls and pieces of cardboard are not advised, for they may choke or eat it.
Mouse cages are NOT advised because hamsters can squeeze through many small spaces.
Keep you hamster away from any electric wires, since they like to chew on them.
Christians and even people who are not Christians dress very nicely and go to church on Easter Sunday.
Large dinners are usually held on Easter afternoon as well.
A ham is often at the center of this dinner.
Agnosticism is the belief that it is not possible to prove if there is or is n't a god, or higher power in the universe.
A person can be agnostic and believe in a god or not believe in a god.
Strong agnosticism -LRB- also called hard agnosticism, closed agnosticism, strict agnosticism, absolute agnosticism -RRB- is the belief that it is not possible to prove whether a god exists or not.
Some atheists though -LRB- maybe the majority -RRB- state that it is up to theists or those who believe in a deity to give the evidence for a god or to show why someone should believe in a god.
They state that without evidence there is no reason to believe in a god.
DDR2 allows stored data to be moved and used more quickly than DDR, so that the computer 's processor can keep working quickly without having to wait for data as long or as often, and DDR3 technology works even faster.
Different kinds of RAM usually wo n't work together in the same computer.
Most computers can only use one kind of RAM.
Some can use a small number of different kinds.
Different kinds of RAM often have differently shaped connectors so that they can only be connected to computers they will work in.
YOU SMELL
An integrated circuit -LRB- more often called a microchip, silicon chip, computer chip, or chip -RRB- is a piece of specially prepared silicon -LRB- or another semiconductor -RRB- into which a very complex electronic circuit is etched using a photographic technique.
Silicon chips can contain computer processors, memory and special devices.
The chip, which is very fragile, is normally surrounded by a tough plastic package, and electrical contacts are provided through metal legs sticking out of the package.
The chip is very fragile and so is normally surrounded by a tough plastic package, and electrical contact with the chip are provided through metal legs sticking out of the package.
Boys of Saint edwards Year 8...
The style might also be referred to as ` alternative rock ', as it is not generally played on mainstreams radio stations, due to the content of the lyrics -LRB- swearing -RRB-, and the heaviness of the music.
It began as a Christian church -LRB- a member church of the Disciples of Christ -RRB-, but over time became a cult.
Hes a FAGGOTTT
About 0.5 million people live in Asmara.
Almost half of Eritrea 's economy comes from Eritreans who live abroad.
They send money home to their families.
Many different countries have ruled the land that is now called Eritrea.
This was the cause of a long civil war between the Eritreans and the government of Ethiopia.
Eventually, in 1993, Eritrea became an independent country after a vote by its people.
This was the reason for a long civil war between the Eritreans and the government of Ethiopia.
He is known for his military skills.
By the time of his death he had conquered most the known world.
The Brisbane River flows through the city.
1,730,000 people are living there and there is both a Catholic and a Protestant Bishop.
Brisbane was founded in 1824 and was meant at first for prisoners who were embarked to Australia.
Other Pacific islands whose languages come from this same root form what is called the `` Polynesian Triangle '' and include the Marquesas, Raratonga, Samoa, some islands of what is now Fiji and New Zealand.
Many anime shows have fantasy, action and superhero themes to them, and characters with unnormal hair and big eyes.
After WWII, animated Disney movies from America, like Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs and Bambi were very popular and many artists used a style close to anime, and this is becoming more well-liked.
Western cartoonists are drawing more and more in the `` anime '' style.
Anime is normally in the form of Japanese comics known as manga.
Many anime shows have fantasy, action and superhero themes to them, and characters with strange hair and big eyes.
Many anime shows have fantasy, action and superhero themes to them, and feature characters with strange hair and big eyes.
After WWII, animated Disney movies from America, like Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs and Bambi were very popular and many artists used a similar style.
Anime is often adapted from comics known as manga.
After World War II, animated Disney movies from America, like Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs and Bambi were very popular and many artists drew the same way that Disney artists did.
Some artists from other countries have started to draw like these Japanese artists.
Some anime was first made as comics called manga.
While some anime is hand drawn, the use of computer graphics is common now.
Also, some anime are full length movies.
Anime is often based on Japanese comics -LRB- manga -RRB- and novels.
Sometimes live action -LRB- not animation -RRB- films and television series use storylines from anime.
During the 1970s, there was an increase in the popularity of manga comics very much.
The manga were often later made into anime.
-- -RRB-
Outside of Japan, `` anime '' means japanese animation,.
It was made in Japan '', But, in Japan, anime means all animation in general.
The leader of Sudan right now is President Omar Hassan al-Bashir.
There are many different tribal and ethnic groups of people, though the country is mainly divided between the north, which has more Arabic people, and the south, which has more people of African descent.
OpenBSD is a Unix-like computer operating system descended from Berkeley Software Distribution -LRB- BSD -RRB-, a Unix derivative developed at the University of California, Berkeley.
It was forked from NetBSD by project leader Theo de Raadt in late 1995.
The project is widely known for the developers ' insistence on open source code and quality documentation ; uncompromising position on software licensing ; and focus on security and code correctness.
The project is coordinated from de Raadt 's home in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
Its logo and mascot is Puffy, a pufferfish.
OpenBSD includes a number of security features absent or optional in other operating systems and has a tradition of developers auditing the source code for software bugs and security problems.
The project maintains strict policies on licensing and prefers the open source BSD licence and its variants -- in the past this has led to a comprehensive licence audit and moves to remove or replace code under licences found less acceptable.
As with most other BSD-based operating systems, the OpenBSD kernel and userland programs, such as the shell and common tools like cat and ps, are developed together in a single source repository.
Third-party software is available as binary packages or may be built from source using the ports collection.
OpenBSD currently runs on 17 different hardware platforms, including the DEC Alpha, Intel i386, Hewlett-Packard PA-RISC, AMD AMD64 and Motorola 68000 processors, Apple 's PowerPC machines, Sun SPARC and SPARC64-based computers, the VAX and the Sharp Zaurus.
HEADING History and popularity
In December 1994, NetBSD co-founder Theo de Raadt was asked to resign his position as a senior developer and member of the NetBSD core team, and his access to the source code repository was revoked.
The reason for this is not wholly clear, although there are claims that it was due to personality clashes within the NetBSD project and on its mailing lists.
Glass, Adam.
Message to netbsd-users : Theo De Raadt -LRB- sic -RRB-, December 23, 1994.
Visited January 8, 2006.
De Raadt has been criticized for having a sometimes abrasive personality : in his book, Free For All, Peter Wayner claims that de Raadt `` began to rub some people the wrong way '' before the split from NetBSD ; Wayner, Peter.
Free For All : How Linux and the Free Software Movement Undercut the High Tech Titans, 18.3 Flames, Fights, and the Birth of OpenBSD, 2000.
Visited January 6, 2006.
Linus Torvalds has described him as `` difficult ; `` Forbes.
Is Linux For Losers ?
June 16, 2005.
Visited January 8, 2006.
and an interviewer admits to being `` apprehensive '' before meeting him.
NewsForge.
Theo de Raadt gives it all to OpenBSD, January 30, 2001.
Visited January 8, 2006.
Many have different feelings : the same interviewer describes de Raadt 's `` transformation '' on founding OpenBSD and his `` desire to take care of his team, '' some find his straightforwardness refreshing, and few deny he is a talented coderIn this message the NetBSD core team acknowledge de Raadt 's `` positive contributions '' to the project despite its problems with him.
and security `` guru.
`` Tux Journal.
A good morning with : Theo de Raadt, June 2, 2005.
Visited April 21, 2006
In October 1995, de Raadt founded OpenBSD, a new project forked from NetBSD 1.0.
The initial release, OpenBSD 1.2, was made in July 1996, followed in October of the same year by OpenBSD 2.0.
de Raadt, Theo.
Mail to openbsd-announce : The OpenBSD 2.0 release, October 18, 1996.
Visited December 10, 2005.
Since then, the project has followed a schedule of a release every six months, each of which is maintained and supported for one year.
The latest release, OpenBSD 4.1, appearedBeck, Bob.
Mail to announce@openbsd.org : OpenBSD 4.1 Released.
Visited May 2, 2006.
on May 1, 2007.
Just how widely OpenBSD is used is hard to ascertain : the developers do not collect and publish usage statistics and there are few other sources of information.
The nascent BSD Certification project performed a usage survey which revealed that 32.8% of BSD users -LRB- 1420 of 4330 respondents -RRB- were using OpenBSD, The BSD Certification Group. ; PDF of usage survey results.
placing it second of the four major BSD variants, behind FreeBSD with 77.0% and ahead of NetBSD with 16.3%.
Multiple selections were permitted as a user may use multiple BSD variants side by side.
The DistroWatch website, well-known in the Linux community and often used as a reference for popularity, publishes page hits for each of the Linux distributions and other operating systems it covers.
As of April 14, 2007 it places OpenBSD in 55th place, with 121 hits per day.
FreeBSD is in 16th place with 478 hits per day and a number of Linux distributions range between them.
HEADING Open source and open documentation
When OpenBSD was created, Theo de Raadt decided that the source should be available for anyone to read at any time, so, with the assistance of Chuck Cranor, Chuck Cranor 's site.
he set up a public, anonymous CVS server.
This was the first of its kind in the software development world : at the time, the tradition was for only a small team of developers to have access to a project 's source repository.
This practice had downsides, notably that outside contributors had no way to closely follow a project 's development and contributed work would often duplicate already completed efforts.
This decision led to the name OpenBSD and signalled the project 's insistence on open and public access to both source code and documentation.
A revealing incident regarding open documentation occurred in March 2005, when de Raadt posted a messagede Raadt, Theo.
Mail to openbsd-misc : Adaptec AAC raid support, March 18, 2005.
Visited December 9, 2005.
to the openbsd-misc mailing list.
He announced that after four months of discussion, Adaptec had yet to disclose the required documentation to improve the OpenBSD drivers for its AAC RAID controllers.
As in similar circumstances in the past, he encouraged the OpenBSD community to become involved and express their opinion to Adaptec.
Shortly after this, FreeBSD committer, former Adaptec employee and author of the FreeBSD AAC RAID support Scott LongScott Long 's site.
castigated de RaadtLong, Scott.
Post to OSNews : From a BSD and former Adaptec person..., March 19, 2005.
Visited December 9, 2005.
on the OSNews website for not contacting him directly regarding the issues with Adaptec.
This caused the discussion to spill over onto the freebsd-questions mailing list, where the OpenBSD project leader counteredde Raadt, Theo.
Mail to freebsd-questions : aac support, March 19, 2005.
Visited December 9, 2005.
by claiming that he had received no previous offer of help from Scott Long nor been referred to him by Adaptec.
The debate was amplifiedde Raadt, Theo.
Mail to freebsd-questions : aac support, March 19, 2005.
Visited December 9, 2005.
by disagreements between members of the two camps regarding the use of binary blob drivers and non-disclosure agreements -LRB- NDAs -RRB- : OpenBSD developers do not permit the inclusion of closed source binary drivers in the source tree and are reluctant to sign NDAs.
However, the policy of the FreeBSD project has been less strict and much of the Adaptec RAID management code Scott Long proposed as assistance for OpenBSD was closed source or written under an NDA.
As no documentation was forthcoming before the deadline for release of OpenBSD 3.7, support for Adaptec AAC RAID controllers was removed from the standard OpenBSD kernel.
The OpenBSD policy on openness extends to hardware documentation : in the slides for a December 2006 presentation, de Raadt explained that without it `` developers often make mistakes writing drivers, '' and pointed out that `` the my god, I got it to work rush is harder to achieve, and some developers just give up.
`` de Raadt, Theo.
Presentation at OpenCON, December 2006.
Visited December 7, 2006.
He went on to say that vendor binary drivers are unacceptable, as they can not be trusted and there is `` no way to fix them... when they break, '' that even vendor source is only `` marginally acceptable '' and still difficult to fix when problems occur, and further commented `` if we can not maintain a driver after the vendor stops caring, we... have a broken hardware sic. ''
HEADING Licensing
A goal of the OpenBSD project is to `` maintain the spirit of the original Berkeley Unix copyrights, '' which permitted a `` relatively un-encumbered Unix source distribution.
`` OpenBSD.org.
Copyright Policy.
Visited January 7, 2006.
To this end, the Internet Systems Consortium -LRB- ISC -RRB- licence, a simplified version of the BSD licence with wording removed that is unnecessary under the Berne convention, is preferred for new code, but the MIT or BSD licences are accepted.
The widely used GNU General Public License is considered overly restrictive in comparison with these : NewsForge.
BSD cognoscenti on Linux, June 15, 2005.
Visited January 7, 2006.
code licensed under it, and other licences the project sees as undesirable, is no longer accepted for addition to the base system.
In addition, existing code under such licences is actively replaced or relicensed when possible, except in some cases, such as the GNU Compiler Collection -LRB- GCC -RRB-, where there is no suitable replacement and creating one would be time-consuming and impractical.
Despite this, OpenBSD has made some significant strides in this area : of particular note is the development of OpenSSH, based on the original SSH suite and developed further by the OpenBSD team.
It first appeared in OpenBSD 2.6 and is now the single most popular SSH implementation, available as standard or as a package on many operating systems.
Also worth mentioning is the development, after licence restrictions were imposed on IPFilter, of the pf packet filter, which first appearedHartmeier, Daniel.
Design and Performance of the OpenBSD Stateful Packet Filter -LRB- pf -RRB-.
Visited December 9, 2005.
in OpenBSD 3.0 and is now available in DragonFly BSD, NetBSD and FreeBSD ; more recently, OpenBSD releases have seen the GPL licensed tools bc, dc, diff, grep, gzip, nm, pkg-config, RCS, sendbug -LRB- part of GNATS -RRB- and size replaced with BSD licensed equivalents.
OpenBSD developers are also behind OpenBGPD, OpenOSPFD, OpenNTPD and OpenCVS, BSD licensed alternatives to existing software.
In June 2001, triggered by concerns over Darren Reed 's modification of IPFilter 's licence wording, a systematic licence audit of the OpenBSD ports and source trees was undertaken.
NewsForge.
OpenBSD and ipfilter still fighting over license disagreement, June 06, 2001.
Visited November 23, 2005.
Code in more than a hundred files throughout the system was found to be unlicensed, ambiguously licensed or in use against the terms of the licence.
To ensure that all licences were properly adhered to, an attempt was made to contact all the relevant copyright holders : some pieces of code were removed, many were replaced, and others, including the multicast routing tools, mrinfo and map-mbone, Man pages : mrinfo and map-mbone.
which were licensed by Xerox for research only, were relicensed so that OpenBSD could continue to use them.
Also of note during this audit was the removal of all software produced by Daniel J. Bernstein from the OpenBSD ports tree.
At the time, Bernstein requested that all modified versions of his code be approved by him prior to redistribution, a requirement to which OpenBSD developers were unwilling to devote time or effort.
de Raadt, Theo.
Mail to openbsd-misc : Re : Why were all DJB 's ports removed ?
No more qmail ?
, August 24, 2001.
Visited December 9, 2005.
The removal led to a clash with Bernstein who felt the removal of his software to be uncalled for and cited the Netscape web browser as much less free, accusing the OpenBSD developers of hypocrisy for permitting Netscape to remain while removing his software.
Bernstein, DJ.
Mail to openbsd-misc : Re : Why were all DJB 's ports removed ?
No more qmail ?
, August 27, 2001.
Visited December 9, 2005.
The OpenBSD project 's stance was that Netscape, although not open source, had licence conditions that could be more easily met ; Espie, Marc.
Mail to openbsd-misc : Re : Why were all DJB 's ports removed ?
No more qmail ?
, August 28, 2001.
Visited December 9, 2005.
they asserted that Bernstein 's demand for control of derivatives would lead to a great deal of additional work and that removal was the most appropriate way to comply with his requirements.
At present, Daniel J. Bernstein 's software is still absent from the ports tree.
HEADING Security and code auditing
Shortly after OpenBSD 's creation, Theo de Raadt was contacted by a local security software company named Secure Networks, Inc. or SNI.
The Age.
Staying on the cutting edge, October 8, 2004.
Visited January 8, 2006.
ONLamp.com.
Interview with OpenBSD developers : The Essence of OpenBSD, July 17, 2003.
Visited December 18, 2005.
They were developing a `` network security auditing tool '' called Ballista -LRB- later renamed to Cybercop Scanner after SNI was purchased by Network Associates -RRB- which was intended to find and attempt to exploit possible software security flaws.
This coincided well with de Raadt 's own interest in security, so the two agreed to cooperate, a relationship that was of particular use leading up to the release of OpenBSD 2.3 Theo de Raadt on SNI : `` Without their support at the right time, this release probably would not have happened. ''
From the 2.3 release announcement.
Visited December 19, 2005.
and helped to form the focal point of the project : OpenBSD developers would attempt to do what was right, proper or secure, even at the cost of ease, speed or functionality.
As bugs within OpenBSD became harder to find and exploit, the security company found that it was too difficult, or not cost effective, to handle such obscure problems.
After years of cooperation, the two parties decided that their goals together had been met and parted ways.
Until June 2002, the OpenBSD website featured the slogan :
In June 2002, Mark Dowd of Internet Security Systems disclosed a bug in the OpenSSH code implementing challenge-response authentication.
Internet Security Systems.
OpenSSH Remote Challenge Vulnerability, June 26, 2002.
Visited December 17, 2005.
This vulnerability in the OpenBSD default installation allowed an attacker remote access to the root account, and was extremely serious, partly due to the widespread use of OpenSSH by that time : the bug affected a considerable number of other operating systems.
A partial list of affected operating systems.
This problem necessitated the adjustment of the slogan on the OpenBSD website to :
This was changed on March 13 2007 to read `` two remote holes, '' after Core Security TechnologiesCore Security Technologies ' homepage.
disclosed a network-related remote vulnerability.
Core Security Technologies.
Mail to bugtraq : OpenBSD 's IPv6 mbufs remote kernel buffer overflow.
March 13, 2007.
Visited March 13, 2007.
This statement has been criticized because little is enabled in a default install of OpenBSD and releases have included software that was later found to have remote holes ; however, the project maintains that the slogan is intended to refer to a default install and that it is correct by that measure.
One of the fundamental ideas behind OpenBSD is a drive for systems to be simple, clean and secure by default.
For example, OpenBSD 's minimal defaults fit in with standard computer security practice of enabling as few services as possible on production machines, and the project uses open source and code auditing practices argued to be important elements of a security system.
Wheeler, David A. Secure Programming for Linux and Unix HOWTO, 2.4.
Is Open Source Good for Security ?
, March 3, 2003.
Visited December 10, 2005.
OpenBSD includes a large number of specific features designed to improve security, including API and toolchain alterations, such as the arc4random, issetugid, strlcat, strlcpy and strtonum functions and a static bounds checker ; memory protection techniques to guard against invalid accesses, such as ProPolice, StackGhost, the W ^ X -LRB- W xor X -RRB- page protection features, as well as alterations to malloc ; and cryptography and randomization features, including network stack enhancements and the addition of the Blowfish cipher for password encryption.
To reduce the risk of a vulnerability or misconfiguration allowing privilege escalation, some programs have been written or adapted to make use of privilege separation, privilege revocation and chrooting.
Privilege separation is a technique, pioneered on OpenBSD and inspired by the principle of least privilege, where a program is split into two or more parts, one of which performs privileged operations and the other -- almost always the bulk of the code -- runs without privilege.
Provos, Niels.
Privilege Separated OpenSSH.
Visited January 30, 2006.
Privilege revocation is similar and involves a program performing any necessary operations with the privileges it starts with then dropping them, and chrooting involves restricting an application to one section of the file system, prohibiting it from accessing areas that contain private or system files.
Developers have applied these features to OpenBSD versions of common applications, including tcpdump and the Apache web server, which, due to licensing issues with the later Apache 2 series, is a heavily patched 1.3.29 release.
The project has a policy of continually auditing code for security problems, work developer Marc Espie has described as `` never finished... more a question of process than of a specific bug being hunted.
`` O'Reilly Network.
An Interview with OpenBSD 's Marc Espie, March 18, 2004.
Visited January 24, 2006.
He went on to list several typical steps once a bug is found, including examining the entire source tree for the same and similar issues, `` try ing to find out whether the documentation ought to be amended, '' and investigating whether `` it 's possible to augment the compiler to warn against this specific problem. ''
Along with DragonFly, OpenBSD is one of the two open source operating systems with a policy of seeking out examples of classic, K&R C code and converting it to the more modern ANSI equivalent -- this involves no functional change and is purely for readability and consistency reasons.
A standard code style, the Kernel Normal Form, which dictates how code must look in order to be easily maintained and understood, must be applied to all code before it is considered for inclusion in the base operating system ; existing code is actively updated to meet the style requirements.
HEADING Uses
OpenBSD 's security enhancements, built-in cryptography and the pf firewall suit it for use in the security industry, particularly for firewalls, intrusion-detection systems and VPN gateways.
It is also commonly used for servers which must resist cracking and DoS attacks, and due to including the spamd daemon, it sometimes is used in mail filtering applications.
Several proprietary systems are based on OpenBSD, including Profense from Armorlogic ApS, Armorlogic ApS 's homepage.
AccessEnforcer from Calyptix Security, Calyptix Security 's website.
GeNUGate and GeNUBox from GeNUA mbH, GeNUA mbH 's homepage.
RTMX O\/S from RTMX Inc, RTMX Inc homepage.
syswall from Syscall Network Solutions AG, Syscall Network Solutions AG 's site.
HIOBMessenger from topX, and various security appliances made by.
vantronix GmbH.
vantronix GmbH 's homepage.
Of these, both GeNUA and RTMX have contributed back to OpenBSD : GeNUA funded the development of SMP on the i386 platform and RTMX have sent patches to add further POSIX compliance to the system.
Several open source operating systems have also been derived from OpenBSD, notably Anonym.
OS and MirOS BSD, as well as the now defunct ekkoBSD, MicroBSD and Gentoo\/OpenBSD.
In addition, code from many of the OpenBSD system tools has been used in recent versions of Microsoft 's Services for UNIX, an extension to the Windows operating system which provides some Unix-like functionality, originally based on 4.4 BSD-Lite.
Core force, a security product for Windows, is based on OpenBSD 's pf firewall.
There have also been projects which use OpenBSD as part of images for embedded systems, including OpenSoekris and flashdist ; together with tools like nsh, these allow Cisco-like embedded devices to be created.
OpenSoekris, flashdist and nsh.
OpenBSD ships with the X window system.
Following the XFree86 licence change, it includes a recent X.Org release ; an older XFree86 3.3 release is also available for legacy video cards.
With these, it is possible to use OpenBSD as a desktop or workstation, making use of a desktop environment, window manager or both to give the X desktop a wide range of appearances.
The OpenBSD ports tree contains many of the most popular tools for desktop use, including desktop environments GNOME, KDE, and Xfce ; web browsers Konqueror, Mozilla Firefox and Opera ; and multimedia programs MPlayer, VLC media player and xine.
In addition, graphical software for many uses is available from both the ports tree and by compiling POSIX compliant software.
Also available are compatibility layers, which allow binary code compiled for other operating systems, including Linux, FreeBSD, SunOS and HP-UX, to be run.
However, since hardware providers such as video card manufacturers ATI and NVIDIA refuse to release open source drivers or documentation for the 3D capabilities of their hardware, OpenBSD lacks accelerated 3D graphics support.
OpenBSD 's performance and usability is occasionally criticised.
Felix von Leitner 's performance and scalability tests, Scalability test results and conclusions.
indicated that OpenBSD lagged behind other operating systems.
In response, OpenBSD users and developers criticised von Leitner 's objectivity and methodology, and asserted that although performance is given consideration, security and correct design are prioritised, with developer Nick Holland commenting : `` It all boils down to what you consider important.
`` Holland, Nick.
Mail to openbsd-misc : Re : OpenBSD Benchmarked... results : poor !
, October 19, 2003.
Visited January 8, 2006.
OpenBSD is also a relatively small project, particularly when compared with FreeBSD and Linux, and developer time is sometimes seen as better spent on security enhancements than performance optimisations.
Critics of usability often point out the lack of user-friendly configuration tools, the bare default installation, NewsForge.
Trying out the new OpenBSD 3.8, November 2, 2005.
Visited January 8, 2006.
and `` spartan '' and `` intimidating '' installer.
NewsForge.
Review : OpenBSD 3.5, July 22, 2004.
Visited January 8, 2006.
These see much the same rebuttals as performance : a preference for simplicity, reliability and security ; as one reviewer admits, `` running an ultra-secure operating system can be a bit of work.
`` DistroWatch.
OpenBSD - For Your Eyes Only, 2004.
Visited January 8, 2006.
HEADING Distribution and marketing
OpenBSD is available freely in various ways : the source can be retrieved by anonymous CVS or CVSup, and binary releases and development snapshots can be downloaded either by FTP or HTTP.
Prepackaged CD-ROM sets can be ordered online for a small fee, complete with an assortment of stickers and a copy of the release 's theme song.
These, with its artwork and other bonuses, are one of the project 's few sources of income, funding hardware, bandwidth and other expenses.
To encourage the sale of the official CD-ROMs, OpenBSD makes only a small install ISO image available for download rather than providing full release images.
In common with several other operating systems, OpenBSD uses ports and packages systems to allow for easy installation and management of programs which are not part of the base operating system.
Originally based on the FreeBSD ports tree, the system is now quite distinct.
Additionally, major changes have been made since the 3.6 release, including the replacement of the package tools, the tools available to the user to manipulate packages, by more capable versions, written in Perl by Marc Espie.
In contrast to FreeBSD, the OpenBSD ports system is intended as a source used to create the end product, the packages : installing a port first creates a package and then installs it using the package tools.
Packages are built in bulk by the OpenBSD team and provided for download with each release.
OpenBSD is also unique among the BSDs in that the ports and base operating system are developed and released together for each version : this means that the ports or packages released with, for example, 3.7 are not suitable for use with 3.6 and vice versa, a policy which lends a great deal of stability to the development process, but means that the software in ports for the latest OpenBSD release can lag somewhat from the latest version available from the author.
Around the time of the OpenBSD 2.7 release, the original mascot, a BSD daemon with a trident and aureola, was replaced by Puffy, traditionally said to be a pufferfish.
In fact pufferfish do not possess spikes and images of Puffy are closer to a similar species, the porcupinefish.
Puffy was selected because of the Blowfish encryption algorithm used in OpenSSH and the strongly defensive image of the porcupinefish with its spikes to deter predators.
He quickly became very popular, mainly because of the appealing image of the fish and his distinction from the BSD daemon, also used by FreeBSD, and the horde of daemons then used by NetBSD.
Puffy made his first public appearance in OpenBSD 2.6 and, since then, has appeared in a number of guises on tee-shirts and posters.
These have included Puffiana Jones, the famed hackologist and adventurer, seeking out the Lost RAID ; Puffathy, a little Alberta girl, who must work with Taiwan to save the day ; Sir Puffy of Ramsay, a freedom fighter who, with Little Bob of Beckley, took from the rich and gave to all ; and Puff Daddy, famed rapper and political icon.
After a number of releases, OpenBSD has become notorious for its catchy songs and interesting and often comical artwork.
The promotional material of early OpenBSD releases did not have a cohesive theme or design but, starting with OpenBSD 3.0, the CD-ROMs, release songs, posters and tee-shirts for each release have been produced with a single style and theme, sometimes contributed to by Ty Semaka of the Plaid Tongued Devils.
At first they were done lightly and only intended to add humor but, as the concept has evolved, they have become a part of OpenBSD advocacy, with each release expanding a moral or political point important to the project, often through parody.
Past themes have included : in OpenBSD 3.8, the Hackers of the Lost RAID, a parody of Indiana Jones linked to the new RAID tools featured as part of the release ; The Wizard of OS, making its debut in OpenBSD 3.7, based on the work of Pink Floyd and a parody of The Wizard of Oz related to the project 's recent wireless work ; and OpenBSD 3.3 's Puff the Barbarian, including an 80s rock-style song and parody of Conan the Barbarian, alluding to open documentation.
In addition to the slogans used on tee-shirts and posters for releases, the project occasionally produces other material : over the years, catchphrases have included `` Sending script kiddies to \/ dev\/null since 1995, '' `` Functional, secure, free - choose 3, '' `` Secure by default, '' and a few insider slogans, only available on tee-shirts made for developer gatherings, such as `` World class security for much less than the price of a cruise missile '' and a crufty old octopus proclaiming `` Shut up and hack ! ''
HEADING Books
A number of books on OpenBSD have been published, including :
The OpenBSD Command-Line Companion, 1st ed.
by Jacek Artymiak.
ISBN 83-916651-8-6.
Building Firewalls with OpenBSD and PF : Second Edition by Jacek Artymiak.
ISBN 83-916651-1-9.
Mastering FreeBSD and OpenBSD Security by Yanek Korff, Paco Hope and Bruce Potter.
ISBN 0-596-00626-8.
Absolute OpenBSD, Unix for the Practical Paranoid by Michael W. Lucas.
ISBN 1-886411-99-9.
Secure Architectures with OpenBSD by Brandon Palmer and Jose Nazario.
ISBN 0-321-19366-0.
The OpenBSD PF Packet Filter Book : PF for NetBSD, FreeBSD, DragonFly and OpenBSD published by Reed Media Services.
ISBN 0-9790342-0-5.
Building Linux and OpenBSD Firewalls by Wes Sonnenreich and Tom Yates.
ISBN 0-471-35366-3.
BSD Authentication
BSD and GPL licensing
Comparison of BSD operating systems
Comparison of operating systems
Comparison of open source operating systems
Hackathon
List of OpenBSD developers
Security focused operating system
HEADING Notes and references
tags -- -RRB-
HEADING External links
OpenBSD 's homepage
OpenSSH 's homepage
OpenNTPD 's homepage
OpenBGPD 's homepage
OpenCVS 's homepage
OpenBSD 101
A third-party OpenBSD guide site
Unofficial OpenBSD ports tracker
OpenBSD is a Unix-like computer operating system descended from Berkeley Software Distribution -LRB- BSD -RRB-, a Unix derivative developed at the University of California, Berkeley.
It was forked from NetBSD by project leader Theo de Raadt in late 1995.
The project is widely known for the developers ' insistence on open source code and quality documentation ; uncompromising position on software licensing ; and focus on security and code correctness.
The project is coordinated from de Raadt 's home in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
Its logo and mascot is Puffy, a pufferfish.
OpenBSD includes a number of security features absent or optional in other operating systems and has a tradition of developers auditing the source code for software bugs and security problems.
The project maintains strict policies on licensing and prefers the open source BSD licence and its variants -- in the past this has led to a comprehensive licence audit and moves to remove or replace code under licences found less acceptable.
As with most other BSD-based operating systems, the OpenBSD kernel and userland programs, such as the shell and common tools like cat and ps, are developed together in a single source repository.
Third-party software is available as binary packages or may be built from source using the ports collection.
OpenBSD currently runs on 17 different hardware platforms, including the DEC Alpha, Intel i386, Hewlett-Packard PA-RISC, AMD AMD64 and Motorola 68000 processors, Apple 's PowerPC machines, Sun SPARC and SPARC64-based computers, the VAX and the Sharp Zaurus.
HEADING History and popularity
In December 1994, NetBSD co-founder Theo de Raadt was asked to resign his position as a senior developer and member of the NetBSD core team, and his access to the source code repository was revoked.
The reason for this is not wholly clear, although there are claims that it was due to personality clashes within the NetBSD project and on its mailing lists.
Glass, Adam.
Message to netbsd-users : Theo De Raadt -LRB- sic -RRB-, December 23, 1994.
Visited January 8, 2006.
De Raadt has been criticized for having a sometimes abrasive personality : in his book, Free For All, Peter Wayner claims that de Raadt `` began to rub some people the wrong way '' before the split from NetBSD ; Wayner, Peter.
Free For All : How Linux and the Free Software Movement Undercut the High Tech Titans, 18.3 Flames, Fights, and the Birth of OpenBSD, 2000.
Visited January 6, 2006.
Linus Torvalds has described him as `` difficult ; `` Forbes.
Is Linux For Losers ?
June 16, 2005.
Visited January 8, 2006.
and an interviewer admits to being `` apprehensive '' before meeting him.
NewsForge.
Theo de Raadt gives it all to OpenBSD, January 30, 2001.
Visited January 8, 2006.
Many have different feelings : the same interviewer describes de Raadt 's `` transformation '' on founding OpenBSD and his `` desire to take care of his team, '' some find his straightforwardness refreshing, and few deny he is a talented coderIn this message the NetBSD core team acknowledge de Raadt 's `` positive contributions '' to the project despite its problems with him.
and security `` guru.
`` Tux Journal.
A good morning with : Theo de Raadt, June 2, 2005.
Visited April 21, 2006
In October 1995, de Raadt founded OpenBSD, a new project forked from NetBSD 1.0.
The initial release, OpenBSD 1.2, was made in July 1996, followed in October of the same year by OpenBSD 2.0.
de Raadt, Theo.
Mail to openbsd-announce : The OpenBSD 2.0 release, October 18, 1996.
Visited December 10, 2005.
Since then, the project has followed a schedule of a release every six months, each of which is maintained and supported for one year.
The latest release, OpenBSD 4.1, appearedBeck, Bob.
Mail to announce@openbsd.org : OpenBSD 4.1 Released.
Visited May 2, 2006.
on May 1, 2007.
Just how widely OpenBSD is used is hard to ascertain : the developers do not collect and publish usage statistics and there are few other sources of information.
The nascent BSD Certification project performed a usage survey which revealed that 32.8% of BSD users -LRB- 1420 of 4330 respondents -RRB- were using OpenBSD, The BSD Certification Group. ; PDF of usage survey results.
placing it second of the four major BSD variants, behind FreeBSD with 77.0% and ahead of NetBSD with 16.3%.
Multiple selections were permitted as a user may use multiple BSD variants side by side.
The DistroWatch website, well-known in the Linux community and often used as a reference for popularity, publishes page hits for each of the Linux distributions and other operating systems it covers.
As of April 14, 2007 it places OpenBSD in 55th place, with 121 hits per day.
FreeBSD is in 16th place with 478 hits per day and a number of Linux distributions range between them.
HEADING Open source and open documentation
When OpenBSD was created, Theo de Raadt decided that the source should be available for anyone to read at any time, so, with the assistance of Chuck Cranor, Chuck Cranor 's site.
he set up a public, anonymous CVS server.
This was the first of its kind in the software development world : at the time, the tradition was for only a small team of developers to have access to a project 's source repository.
This practice had downsides, notably that outside contributors had no way to closely follow a project 's development and contributed work would often duplicate already completed efforts.
This decision led to the name OpenBSD and signalled the project 's insistence on open and public access to both source code and documentation.
A revealing incident regarding open documentation occurred in March 2005, when de Raadt posted a messagede Raadt, Theo.
Mail to openbsd-misc : Adaptec AAC raid support, March 18, 2005.
Visited December 9, 2005.
to the openbsd-misc mailing list.
He announced that after four months of discussion, Adaptec had yet to disclose the required documentation to improve the OpenBSD drivers for its AAC RAID controllers.
As in similar circumstances in the past, he encouraged the OpenBSD community to become involved and express their opinion to Adaptec.
Shortly after this, FreeBSD committer, former Adaptec employee and author of the FreeBSD AAC RAID support Scott LongScott Long 's site.
castigated de RaadtLong, Scott.
Post to OSNews : From a BSD and former Adaptec person..., March 19, 2005.
Visited December 9, 2005.
on the OSNews website for not contacting him directly regarding the issues with Adaptec.
This caused the discussion to spill over onto the freebsd-questions mailing list, where the OpenBSD project leader counteredde Raadt, Theo.
Mail to freebsd-questions : aac support, March 19, 2005.
Visited December 9, 2005.
by claiming that he had received no previous offer of help from Scott Long nor been referred to him by Adaptec.
The debate was amplifiedde Raadt, Theo.
Mail to freebsd-questions : aac support, March 19, 2005.
Visited December 9, 2005.
by disagreements between members of the two camps regarding the use of binary blob drivers and non-disclosure agreements -LRB- NDAs -RRB- : OpenBSD developers do not permit the inclusion of closed source binary drivers in the source tree and are reluctant to sign NDAs.
However, the policy of the FreeBSD project has been less strict and much of the Adaptec RAID management code Scott Long proposed as assistance for OpenBSD was closed source or written under an NDA.
As no documentation was forthcoming before the deadline for release of OpenBSD 3.7, support for Adaptec AAC RAID controllers was removed from the standard OpenBSD kernel.
The OpenBSD policy on openness extends to hardware documentation : in the slides for a December 2006 presentation, de Raadt explained that without it `` developers often make mistakes writing drivers, '' and pointed out that `` the my god, I got it to work rush is harder to achieve, and some developers just give up.
`` de Raadt, Theo.
Presentation at OpenCON, December 2006.
Visited December 7, 2006.
He went on to say that vendor binary drivers are unacceptable, as they can not be trusted and there is `` no way to fix them... when they break, '' that even vendor source is only `` marginally acceptable '' and still difficult to fix when problems occur, and further commented `` if we can not maintain a driver after the vendor stops caring, we... have a broken hardware sic. ''
HEADING Licensing
A goal of the OpenBSD project is to `` maintain the spirit of the original Berkeley Unix copyrights, '' which permitted a `` relatively un-encumbered Unix source distribution.
`` OpenBSD.org.
Copyright Policy.
Visited January 7, 2006.
To this end, the Internet Systems Consortium -LRB- ISC -RRB- licence, a simplified version of the BSD licence with wording removed that is unnecessary under the Berne convention, is preferred for new code, but the MIT or BSD licences are accepted.
The widely used GNU General Public License is considered overly restrictive in comparison with these : NewsForge.
BSD cognoscenti on Linux, June 15, 2005.
Visited January 7, 2006.
code licensed under it, and other licences the project sees as undesirable, is no longer accepted for addition to the base system.
In addition, existing code under such licences is actively replaced or relicensed when possible, except in some cases, such as the GNU Compiler Collection -LRB- GCC -RRB-, where there is no suitable replacement and creating one would be time-consuming and impractical.
Despite this, OpenBSD has made some significant strides in this area : of particular note is the development of OpenSSH, based on the original SSH suite and developed further by the OpenBSD team.
It first appeared in OpenBSD 2.6 and is now the single most popular SSH implementation, available as standard or as a package on many operating systems.
Also worth mentioning is the development, after licence restrictions were imposed on IPFilter, of the pf packet filter, which first appearedHartmeier, Daniel.
Design and Performance of the OpenBSD Stateful Packet Filter -LRB- pf -RRB-.
Visited December 9, 2005.
in OpenBSD 3.0 and is now available in DragonFly BSD, NetBSD and FreeBSD ; more recently, OpenBSD releases have seen the GPL licensed tools bc, dc, diff, grep, gzip, nm, pkg-config, RCS, sendbug -LRB- part of GNATS -RRB- and size replaced with BSD licensed equivalents.
OpenBSD developers are also behind OpenBGPD, OpenOSPFD, OpenNTPD and OpenCVS, BSD licensed alternatives to existing software.
In June 2001, triggered by concerns over Darren Reed 's modification of IPFilter 's licence wording, a systematic licence audit of the OpenBSD ports and source trees was undertaken.
NewsForge.
OpenBSD and ipfilter still fighting over license disagreement, June 06, 2001.
Visited November 23, 2005.
Code in more than a hundred files throughout the system was found to be unlicensed, ambiguously licensed or in use against the terms of the licence.
To ensure that all licences were properly adhered to, an attempt was made to contact all the relevant copyright holders : some pieces of code were removed, many were replaced, and others, including the multicast routing tools, mrinfo and map-mbone, Man pages : mrinfo and map-mbone.
which were licensed by Xerox for research only, were relicensed so that OpenBSD could continue to use them.
Also of note during this audit was the removal of all software produced by Daniel J. Bernstein from the OpenBSD ports tree.
At the time, Bernstein requested that all modified versions of his code be approved by him prior to redistribution, a requirement to which OpenBSD developers were unwilling to devote time or effort.
de Raadt, Theo.
Mail to openbsd-misc : Re : Why were all DJB 's ports removed ?
No more qmail ?
, August 24, 2001.
Visited December 9, 2005.
The removal led to a clash with Bernstein who felt the removal of his software to be uncalled for and cited the Netscape web browser as much less free, accusing the OpenBSD developers of hypocrisy for permitting Netscape to remain while removing his software.
Bernstein, DJ.
Mail to openbsd-misc : Re : Why were all DJB 's ports removed ?
No more qmail ?
, August 27, 2001.
Visited December 9, 2005.
The OpenBSD project 's stance was that Netscape, although not open source, had licence conditions that could be more easily met ; Espie, Marc.
Mail to openbsd-misc : Re : Why were all DJB 's ports removed ?
No more qmail ?
, August 28, 2001.
Visited December 9, 2005.
they asserted that Bernstein 's demand for control of derivatives would lead to a great deal of additional work and that removal was the most appropriate way to comply with his requirements.
At present, Daniel J. Bernstein 's software is still absent from the ports tree.
HEADING Security and code auditing
Shortly after OpenBSD 's creation, Theo de Raadt was contacted by a local security software company named Secure Networks, Inc. or SNI.
The Age.
Staying on the cutting edge, October 8, 2004.
Visited January 8, 2006.
ONLamp.com.
Interview with OpenBSD developers : The Essence of OpenBSD, July 17, 2003.
Visited December 18, 2005.
They were developing a `` network security auditing tool '' called Ballista -LRB- later renamed to Cybercop Scanner after SNI was purchased by Network Associates -RRB- which was intended to find and attempt to exploit possible software security flaws.
This coincided well with de Raadt 's own interest in security, so the two agreed to cooperate, a relationship that was of particular use leading up to the release of OpenBSD 2.3 Theo de Raadt on SNI : `` Without their support at the right time, this release probably would not have happened. ''
From the 2.3 release announcement.
Visited December 19, 2005.
and helped to form the focal point of the project : OpenBSD developers would attempt to do what was right, proper or secure, even at the cost of ease, speed or functionality.
As bugs within OpenBSD became harder to find and exploit, the security company found that it was too difficult, or not cost effective, to handle such obscure problems.
After years of cooperation, the two parties decided that their goals together had been met and parted ways.
Until June 2002, the OpenBSD website featured the slogan :
In June 2002, Mark Dowd of Internet Security Systems disclosed a bug in the OpenSSH code implementing challenge-response authentication.
Internet Security Systems.
OpenSSH Remote Challenge Vulnerability, June 26, 2002.
Visited December 17, 2005.
This vulnerability in the OpenBSD default installation allowed an attacker remote access to the root account, and was extremely serious, partly due to the widespread use of OpenSSH by that time : the bug affected a considerable number of other operating systems.
A partial list of affected operating systems.
This problem necessitated the adjustment of the slogan on the OpenBSD website to :
This was changed on March 13 2007 to read `` two remote holes, '' after Core Security TechnologiesCore Security Technologies ' homepage.
disclosed a network-related remote vulnerability.
Core Security Technologies.
Mail to bugtraq : OpenBSD 's IPv6 mbufs remote kernel buffer overflow.
March 13, 2007.
Visited March 13, 2007.
This statement has been criticized because little is enabled in a default install of OpenBSD and releases have included software that was later found to have remote holes ; however, the project maintains that the slogan is intended to refer to a default install and that it is correct by that measure.
One of the fundamental ideas behind OpenBSD is a drive for systems to be simple, clean and secure by default.
For example, OpenBSD 's minimal defaults fit in with standard computer security practice of enabling as few services as possible on production machines, and the project uses open source and code auditing practices argued to be important elements of a security system.
Wheeler, David A. Secure Programming for Linux and Unix HOWTO, 2.4.
Is Open Source Good for Security ?
, March 3, 2003.
Visited December 10, 2005.
OpenBSD includes a large number of specific features designed to improve security, including API and toolchain alterations, such as the arc4random, issetugid, strlcat, strlcpy and strtonum functions and a static bounds checker ; memory protection techniques to guard against invalid accesses, such as ProPolice, StackGhost, the W ^ X -LRB- W xor X -RRB- page protection features, as well as alterations to malloc ; and cryptography and randomization features, including network stack enhancements and the addition of the Blowfish cipher for password encryption.
To reduce the risk of a vulnerability or misconfiguration allowing privilege escalation, some programs have been written or adapted to make use of privilege separation, privilege revocation and chrooting.
Privilege separation is a technique, pioneered on OpenBSD and inspired by the principle of least privilege, where a program is split into two or more parts, one of which performs privileged operations and the other -- almost always the bulk of the code -- runs without privilege.
Provos, Niels.
Privilege Separated OpenSSH.
Visited January 30, 2006.
Privilege revocation is similar and involves a program performing any necessary operations with the privileges it starts with then dropping them, and chrooting involves restricting an application to one section of the file system, prohibiting it from accessing areas that contain private or system files.
Developers have applied these features to OpenBSD versions of common applications, including tcpdump and the Apache web server, which, due to licensing issues with the later Apache 2 series, is a heavily patched 1.3.29 release.
The project has a policy of continually auditing code for security problems, work developer Marc Espie has described as `` never finished... more a question of process than of a specific bug being hunted.
`` O'Reilly Network.
An Interview with OpenBSD 's Marc Espie, March 18, 2004.
Visited January 24, 2006.
He went on to list several typical steps once a bug is found, including examining the entire source tree for the same and similar issues, `` try ing to find out whether the documentation ought to be amended, '' and investigating whether `` it 's possible to augment the compiler to warn against this specific problem. ''
Along with DragonFly, OpenBSD is one of the two open source operating systems with a policy of seeking out examples of classic, K&R C code and converting it to the more modern ANSI equivalent -- this involves no functional change and is purely for readability and consistency reasons.
A standard code style, the Kernel Normal Form, which dictates how code must look in order to be easily maintained and understood, must be applied to all code before it is considered for inclusion in the base operating system ; existing code is actively updated to meet the style requirements.
HEADING Uses
OpenBSD 's security enhancements, built-in cryptography and the pf firewall suit it for use in the security industry, particularly for firewalls, intrusion-detection systems and VPN gateways.
It is also commonly used for servers which must resist cracking and DoS attacks, and due to including the spamd daemon, it sometimes is used in mail filtering applications.
Several proprietary systems are based on OpenBSD, including Profense from Armorlogic ApS, Armorlogic ApS 's homepage.
AccessEnforcer from Calyptix Security, Calyptix Security 's website.
GeNUGate and GeNUBox from GeNUA mbH, GeNUA mbH 's homepage.
RTMX O\/S from RTMX Inc, RTMX Inc homepage.
syswall from Syscall Network Solutions AG, Syscall Network Solutions AG 's site.
HIOBMessenger from topX, and various security appliances made by.
vantronix GmbH.
vantronix GmbH 's homepage.
Of these, both GeNUA and RTMX have contributed back to OpenBSD : GeNUA funded the development of SMP on the i386 platform and RTMX have sent patches to add further POSIX compliance to the system.
Several open source operating systems have also been derived from OpenBSD, notably Anonym.
OS and MirOS BSD, as well as the now defunct ekkoBSD, MicroBSD and Gentoo\/OpenBSD.
In addition, code from many of the OpenBSD system tools has been used in recent versions of Microsoft 's Services for UNIX, an extension to the Windows operating system which provides some Unix-like functionality, originally based on 4.4 BSD-Lite.
Core force, a security product for Windows, is based on OpenBSD 's pf firewall.
There have also been projects which use OpenBSD as part of images for embedded systems, including OpenSoekris and flashdist ; together with tools like nsh, these allow Cisco-like embedded devices to be created.
OpenSoekris, flashdist and nsh.
OpenBSD ships with the X window system.
Following the XFree86 licence change, it includes a recent X.Org release ; an older XFree86 3.3 release is also available for legacy video cards.
With these, it is possible to use OpenBSD as a desktop or workstation, making use of a desktop environment, window manager or both to give the X desktop a wide range of appearances.
The OpenBSD ports tree contains many of the most popular tools for desktop use, including desktop environments GNOME, KDE, and Xfce ; web browsers Konqueror, Mozilla Firefox and Opera ; and multimedia programs MPlayer, VLC media player and xine.
In addition, graphical software for many uses is available from both the ports tree and by compiling POSIX compliant software.
Also available are compatibility layers, which allow binary code compiled for other operating systems, including Linux, FreeBSD, SunOS and HP-UX, to be run.
However, since hardware providers such as video card manufacturers ATI and NVIDIA refuse to release open source drivers or documentation for the 3D capabilities of their hardware, OpenBSD lacks accelerated 3D graphics support.
OpenBSD 's performance and usability is occasionally criticised.
Felix von Leitner 's performance and scalability tests, Scalability test results and conclusions.
indicated that OpenBSD lagged behind other operating systems.
In response, OpenBSD users and developers criticised von Leitner 's objectivity and methodology, and asserted that although performance is given consideration, security and correct design are prioritised, with developer Nick Holland commenting : `` It all boils down to what you consider important.
`` Holland, Nick.
Mail to openbsd-misc : Re : OpenBSD Benchmarked... results : poor !
, October 19, 2003.
Visited January 8, 2006.
OpenBSD is also a relatively small project, particularly when compared with FreeBSD and Linux, and developer time is sometimes seen as better spent on security enhancements than performance optimisations.
Critics of usability often point out the lack of user-friendly configuration tools, the bare default installation, NewsForge.
Trying out the new OpenBSD 3.8, November 2, 2005.
Visited January 8, 2006.
and `` spartan '' and `` intimidating '' installer.
NewsForge.
Review : OpenBSD 3.5, July 22, 2004.
Visited January 8, 2006.
These see much the same rebuttals as performance : a preference for simplicity, reliability and security ; as one reviewer admits, `` running an ultra-secure operating system can be a bit of work.
`` DistroWatch.
OpenBSD - For Your Eyes Only, 2004.
Visited January 8, 2006.
HEADING Distribution and marketing
OpenBSD is available freely in various ways : the source can be retrieved by anonymous CVS or CVSup, and binary releases and development snapshots can be downloaded either by FTP or HTTP.
Prepackaged CD-ROM sets can be ordered online for a small fee, complete with an assortment of stickers and a copy of the release 's theme song.
These, with its artwork and other bonuses, are one of the project 's few sources of income, funding hardware, bandwidth and other expenses.
To encourage the sale of the official CD-ROMs, OpenBSD makes only a small install ISO image available for download rather than providing full release images.
In common with several other operating systems, OpenBSD uses ports and packages systems to allow for easy installation and management of programs which are not part of the base operating system.
Originally based on the FreeBSD ports tree, the system is now quite distinct.
Additionally, major changes have been made since the 3.6 release, including the replacement of the package tools, the tools available to the user to manipulate packages, by more capable versions, written in Perl by Marc Espie.
In contrast to FreeBSD, the OpenBSD ports system is intended as a source used to create the end product, the packages : installing a port first creates a package and then installs it using the package tools.
Packages are built in bulk by the OpenBSD team and provided for download with each release.
OpenBSD is also unique among the BSDs in that the ports and base operating system are developed and released together for each version : this means that the ports or packages released with, for example, 3.7 are not suitable for use with 3.6 and vice versa, a policy which lends a great deal of stability to the development process, but means that the software in ports for the latest OpenBSD release can lag somewhat from the latest version available from the author.
Around the time of the OpenBSD 2.7 release, the original mascot, a BSD daemon with a trident and aureola, was replaced by Puffy, traditionally said to be a pufferfish.
In fact pufferfish do not possess spikes and images of Puffy are closer to a similar species, the porcupinefish.
Puffy was selected because of the Blowfish encryption algorithm used in OpenSSH and the strongly defensive image of the porcupinefish with its spikes to deter predators.
He quickly became very popular, mainly because of the appealing image of the fish and his distinction from the BSD daemon, also used by FreeBSD, and the horde of daemons then used by NetBSD.
Puffy made his first public appearance in OpenBSD 2.6 and, since then, has appeared in a number of guises on tee-shirts and posters.
These have included Puffiana Jones, the famed hackologist and adventurer, seeking out the Lost RAID ; Puffathy, a little Alberta girl, who must work with Taiwan to save the day ; Sir Puffy of Ramsay, a freedom fighter who, with Little Bob of Beckley, took from the rich and gave to all ; and Puff Daddy, famed rapper and political icon.
After a number of releases, OpenBSD has become notorious for its catchy songs and interesting and often comical artwork.
The promotional material of early OpenBSD releases did not have a cohesive theme or design but, starting with OpenBSD 3.0, the CD-ROMs, release songs, posters and tee-shirts for each release have been produced with a single style and theme, sometimes contributed to by Ty Semaka of the Plaid Tongued Devils.
At first they were done lightly and only intended to add humor but, as the concept has evolved, they have become a part of OpenBSD advocacy, with each release expanding a moral or political point important to the project, often through parody.
Past themes have included : in OpenBSD 3.8, the Hackers of the Lost RAID, a parody of Indiana Jones linked to the new RAID tools featured as part of the release ; The Wizard of OS, making its debut in OpenBSD 3.7, based on the work of Pink Floyd and a parody of The Wizard of Oz related to the project 's recent wireless work ; and OpenBSD 3.3 's Puff the Barbarian, including an 80s rock-style song and parody of Conan the Barbarian, alluding to open documentation.
In addition to the slogans used on tee-shirts and posters for releases, the project occasionally produces other material : over the years, catchphrases have included `` Sending script kiddies to \/ dev\/null since 1995, '' `` Functional, secure, free - choose 3, '' `` Secure by default, '' and a few insider slogans, only available on tee-shirts made for developer gatherings, such as `` World class security for much less than the price of a cruise missile '' and a crufty old octopus proclaiming `` Shut up and hack ! ''
HEADING Books
A number of books on OpenBSD have been published, including :
The OpenBSD Command-Line Companion, 1st ed.
by Jacek Artymiak.
ISBN 83-916651-8-6.
Building Firewalls with OpenBSD and PF : Second Edition by Jacek Artymiak.
ISBN 83-916651-1-9.
Mastering FreeBSD and OpenBSD Security by Yanek Korff, Paco Hope and Bruce Potter.
ISBN 0-596-00626-8.
Absolute OpenBSD Absolute OpenBSD, Unix for the Practical Paranoid by Michael W. Lucas.
ISBN 1-886411-99-9.
Secure Architectures with OpenBSD by Brandon Palmer and Jose Nazario.
ISBN 0-321-19366-0.
The OpenBSD PF Packet Filter Book : PF for NetBSD, FreeBSD, DragonFly and OpenBSD published by Reed Media Services.
ISBN 0-9790342-0-5.
Building Linux and OpenBSD Firewalls by Wes Sonnenreich and Tom Yates.
ISBN 0-471-35366-3.
BSD Authentication
BSD and GPL licensing
Comparison of BSD operating systems
Comparison of operating systems
Comparison of open source operating systems
Hackathon
List of OpenBSD developers
Security focused operating system
HEADING Notes and references
tags -- -RRB-
HEADING External links
OpenBSD 's homepage
OpenSSH 's homepage
OpenNTPD 's homepage
OpenBGPD 's homepage
OpenCVS 's homepage
OpenBSD 101
A third-party OpenBSD guide site
Unofficial OpenBSD ports tracker
OpenBSD is a Unix-like computer operating system descended from Berkeley Software Distribution -LRB- BSD -RRB-, a Unix derivative made at the University of California, Berkeley.
It was forked from NetBSD by project leader Theo de Raadt in late 1995.
The project is widely known for the developers ' insistence on open source code and quality documentation ; uncompromising position on software licensing ; and focus on security and code correctness.
The project is coordinated from de Raadt 's home in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
Its logo and mascot is Puffy, a pufferfish.
OpenBSD includes a number of security features that are optional or not available in other operating systems and has a tradition of developers auditing the source code for software bugs and security problems.
The project maintains strict policies on licensing and prefers the open source BSD licence and similar licences - in the past this has led to a detailed licence audit as well as the removal or replacement of code under licences found to be less wanted.
As with most other BSD-based operating systems, the OpenBSD kernel and userland programs, such as the shell and common tools like cat and ps, are made together, in a single source repository.
Third-party software is available as binary packages or may be built from source using the ports collection.
OpenBSD currently runs on 17 different hardware platforms, including the DEC Alpha, Intel i386, Hewlett-Packard PA-RISC, AMD AMD64 and Motorola 68000 processors, Apple 's PowerPC machines, Sun SPARC and SPARC64-based computers, the VAX and the Sharp Zaurus.
HEADING History and popularity
In December 1994, NetBSD co-founder Theo de Raadt was asked to resign his position as a senior developer and member of the NetBSD core team, and his access to the source code repository was revoked.
The reason for this is not wholly clear, although there are claims that it was due to personality clashes within the NetBSD project and on its mailing lists.
Glass, Adam.
Message to netbsd-users : Theo De Raadt -LRB- sic -RRB-, December 23, 1994.
Visited January 8, 2006.
De Raadt has been criticized for having a sometimes abrasive personality : in his book, Free For All, Peter Wayner claims that de Raadt `` began to rub some people the wrong way '' before the split from NetBSD ; Wayner, Peter.
Free For All : How Linux and the Free Software Movement Undercut the High Tech Titans, 18.3 Flames, Fights, and the Birth of OpenBSD, 2000.
Visited January 6, 2006.
Linus Torvalds has described him as `` difficult ; `` Forbes.
Is Linux For Losers ?
June 16, 2005.
Visited January 8, 2006.
and an interviewer admits to being `` apprehensive '' before meeting him.
NewsForge.
Theo de Raadt gives it all to OpenBSD, January 30, 2001.
Visited January 8, 2006.
Many have different feelings : the same interviewer describes de Raadt 's `` transformation '' on founding OpenBSD and his `` desire to take care of his team, '' some find his straightforwardness refreshing, and few deny he is a talented coderIn this message the NetBSD core team acknowledge de Raadt 's `` positive contributions '' to the project despite its problems with him.
and security `` guru.
`` Tux Journal.
A good morning with : Theo de Raadt, June 2, 2005.
Visited April 21, 2006
In October 1995, de Raadt founded OpenBSD, a new project forked from NetBSD 1.0.
The initial release, OpenBSD 1.2, was made in July 1996, followed in October of the same year by OpenBSD 2.0.
de Raadt, Theo.
Mail to openbsd-announce : The OpenBSD 2.0 release, October 18, 1996.
Visited December 10, 2005.
Since then, the project has followed a schedule of a release every six months, each of which is maintained and supported for one year.
The latest release, OpenBSD 4.1, appearedBeck, Bob.
Mail to announce@openbsd.org : OpenBSD 4.1 Released.
Visited May 2, 2006.
on May 1, 2007.
Just how widely OpenBSD is used is hard to ascertain : the developers do not collect and publish usage statistics and there are few other sources of information.
The nascent BSD Certification project performed a usage survey which revealed that 32.8% of BSD users -LRB- 1420 of 4330 respondents -RRB- were using OpenBSD, The BSD Certification Group. ; PDF of usage survey results.
placing it second of the four major BSD variants, behind FreeBSD with 77.0% and ahead of NetBSD with 16.3%.
Multiple selections were permitted as a user may use multiple BSD variants side by side.
The DistroWatch website, well-known in the Linux community and often used as a reference for popularity, publishes page hits for each of the Linux distributions and other operating systems it covers.
As of April 14, 2007 it places OpenBSD in 55th place, with 121 hits per day.
FreeBSD is in 16th place with 478 hits per day and a number of Linux distributions range between them.
HEADING Open source and open documentation
When OpenBSD was created, Theo de Raadt decided that the source should be available for anyone to read at any time, so, with the assistance of Chuck Cranor, Chuck Cranor 's site.
he set up a public, anonymous CVS server.
This was the first of its kind in the software development world : at the time, the tradition was for only a small team of developers to have access to a project 's source repository.
This practice had downsides, notably that outside contributors had no way to closely follow a project 's development and contributed work would often duplicate already completed efforts.
This decision led to the name OpenBSD and signalled the project 's insistence on open and public access to both source code and documentation.
A revealing incident regarding open documentation occurred in March 2005, when de Raadt posted a messagede Raadt, Theo.
Mail to openbsd-misc : Adaptec AAC raid support, March 18, 2005.
Visited December 9, 2005.
to the openbsd-misc mailing list.
He announced that after four months of discussion, Adaptec had yet to disclose the required documentation to improve the OpenBSD drivers for its AAC RAID controllers.
As in similar circumstances in the past, he encouraged the OpenBSD community to become involved and express their opinion to Adaptec.
Shortly after this, FreeBSD committer, former Adaptec employee and author of the FreeBSD AAC RAID support Scott LongScott Long 's site.
castigated de RaadtLong, Scott.
Post to OSNews : From a BSD and former Adaptec person..., March 19, 2005.
Visited December 9, 2005.
on the OSNews website for not contacting him directly regarding the issues with Adaptec.
This caused the discussion to spill over onto the freebsd-questions mailing list, where the OpenBSD project leader counteredde Raadt, Theo.
Mail to freebsd-questions : aac support, March 19, 2005.
Visited December 9, 2005.
by claiming that he had received no previous offer of help from Scott Long nor been referred to him by Adaptec.
The debate was amplifiedde Raadt, Theo.
Mail to freebsd-questions : aac support, March 19, 2005.
Visited December 9, 2005.
by disagreements between members of the two camps regarding the use of binary blob drivers and non-disclosure agreements -LRB- NDAs -RRB- : OpenBSD developers do not permit the inclusion of closed source binary drivers in the source tree and are reluctant to sign NDAs.
However, the policy of the FreeBSD project has been less strict and much of the Adaptec RAID management code Scott Long proposed as assistance for OpenBSD was closed source or written under an NDA.
As no documentation was forthcoming before the deadline for release of OpenBSD 3.7, support for Adaptec AAC RAID controllers was removed from the standard OpenBSD kernel.
The OpenBSD policy on openness extends to hardware documentation : in the slides for a December 2006 presentation, de Raadt explained that without it `` developers often make mistakes writing drivers, '' and pointed out that `` the my god, I got it to work rush is harder to achieve, and some developers just give up.
`` de Raadt, Theo.
Presentation at OpenCON, December 2006.
Visited December 7, 2006.
He went on to say that vendor binary drivers are unacceptable, as they can not be trusted and there is `` no way to fix them... when they break, '' that even vendor source is only `` marginally acceptable '' and still difficult to fix when problems occur, and further commented `` if we can not maintain a driver after the vendor stops caring, we... have a broken hardware sic. ''
HEADING Licensing
A goal of the OpenBSD project is to `` maintain the spirit of the original Berkeley Unix copyrights, '' which permitted a `` relatively un-encumbered Unix source distribution.
`` OpenBSD.org.
Copyright Policy.
Visited January 7, 2006.
To this end, the Internet Systems Consortium -LRB- ISC -RRB- licence, a simplified version of the BSD licence with wording removed that is unnecessary under the Berne convention, is preferred for new code, but the MIT or BSD licences are accepted.
The widely used GNU General Public License is considered overly restrictive in comparison with these : NewsForge.
BSD cognoscenti on Linux, June 15, 2005.
Visited January 7, 2006.
code licensed under it, and other licences the project sees as undesirable, is no longer accepted for addition to the base system.
In addition, existing code under such licences is actively replaced or relicensed when possible, except in some cases, such as the GNU Compiler Collection -LRB- GCC -RRB-, where there is no suitable replacement and creating one would be time-consuming and impractical.
Despite this, OpenBSD has made some significant strides in this area : of particular note is the development of OpenSSH, based on the original SSH suite and developed further by the OpenBSD team.
It first appeared in OpenBSD 2.6 and is now the single most popular SSH implementation, available as standard or as a package on many operating systems.
Also worth mentioning is the development, after licence restrictions were imposed on IPFilter, of the pf packet filter, which first appearedHartmeier, Daniel.
Design and Performance of the OpenBSD Stateful Packet Filter -LRB- pf -RRB-.
Visited December 9, 2005.
in OpenBSD 3.0 and is now available in DragonFly BSD, NetBSD and FreeBSD ; more recently, OpenBSD releases have seen the GPL licensed tools bc, dc, diff, grep, gzip, nm, pkg-config, RCS, sendbug -LRB- part of GNATS -RRB- and size replaced with BSD licensed equivalents.
OpenBSD developers are also behind OpenBGPD, OpenOSPFD, OpenNTPD and OpenCVS, BSD licensed alternatives to existing software.
In June 2001, triggered by concerns over Darren Reed 's modification of IPFilter 's licence wording, a systematic licence audit of the OpenBSD ports and source trees was undertaken.
NewsForge.
OpenBSD and ipfilter still fighting over license disagreement, June 06, 2001.
Visited November 23, 2005.
Code in more than a hundred files throughout the system was found to be unlicensed, ambiguously licensed or in use against the terms of the licence.
To ensure that all licences were properly adhered to, an attempt was made to contact all the relevant copyright holders : some pieces of code were removed, many were replaced, and others, including the multicast routing tools, mrinfo and map-mbone, Man pages : mrinfo and map-mbone.
which were licensed by Xerox for research only, were relicensed so that OpenBSD could continue to use them.
Also of note during this audit was the removal of all software produced by Daniel J. Bernstein from the OpenBSD ports tree.
At the time, Bernstein requested that all modified versions of his code be approved by him prior to redistribution, a requirement to which OpenBSD developers were unwilling to devote time or effort.
de Raadt, Theo.
Mail to openbsd-misc : Re : Why were all DJB 's ports removed ?
No more qmail ?
, August 24, 2001.
Visited December 9, 2005.
The removal led to a clash with Bernstein who felt the removal of his software to be uncalled for and cited the Netscape web browser as much less free, accusing the OpenBSD developers of hypocrisy for permitting Netscape to remain while removing his software.
Bernstein, DJ.
Mail to openbsd-misc : Re : Why were all DJB 's ports removed ?
No more qmail ?
, August 27, 2001.
Visited December 9, 2005.
The OpenBSD project 's stance was that Netscape, although not open source, had licence conditions that could be more easily met ; Espie, Marc.
Mail to openbsd-misc : Re : Why were all DJB 's ports removed ?
No more qmail ?
, August 28, 2001.
Visited December 9, 2005.
they asserted that Bernstein 's demand for control of derivatives would lead to a great deal of additional work and that removal was the most appropriate way to comply with his requirements.
At present, Daniel J. Bernstein 's software is still absent from the ports tree.
HEADING Security and code auditing
Shortly after OpenBSD 's creation, Theo de Raadt was contacted by a local security software company named Secure Networks, Inc. or SNI.
The Age.
Staying on the cutting edge, October 8, 2004.
Visited January 8, 2006.
ONLamp.com.
Interview with OpenBSD developers : The Essence of OpenBSD, July 17, 2003.
Visited December 18, 2005.
They were developing a `` network security auditing tool '' called Ballista -LRB- later renamed to Cybercop Scanner after SNI was purchased by Network Associates -RRB- which was intended to find and attempt to exploit possible software security flaws.
This coincided well with de Raadt 's own interest in security, so the two agreed to cooperate, a relationship that was of particular use leading up to the release of OpenBSD 2.3 Theo de Raadt on SNI : `` Without their support at the right time, this release probably would not have happened. ''
From the 2.3 release announcement.
Visited December 19, 2005.
and helped to form the focal point of the project : OpenBSD developers would attempt to do what was right, proper or secure, even at the cost of ease, speed or functionality.
As bugs within OpenBSD became harder to find and exploit, the security company found that it was too difficult, or not cost effective, to handle such obscure problems.
After years of cooperation, the two parties decided that their goals together had been met and parted ways.
Until June 2002, the OpenBSD website featured the slogan :
In June 2002, Mark Dowd of Internet Security Systems disclosed a bug in the OpenSSH code implementing challenge-response authentication.
Internet Security Systems.
OpenSSH Remote Challenge Vulnerability, June 26, 2002.
Visited December 17, 2005.
This vulnerability in the OpenBSD default installation allowed an attacker remote access to the root account, and was extremely serious, partly due to the widespread use of OpenSSH by that time : the bug affected a considerable number of other operating systems.
A partial list of affected operating systems.
This problem necessitated the adjustment of the slogan on the OpenBSD website to :
This was changed on March 13 2007 to read `` two remote holes, '' after Core Security TechnologiesCore Security Technologies ' homepage.
disclosed a network-related remote vulnerability.
Core Security Technologies.
Mail to bugtraq : OpenBSD 's IPv6 mbufs remote kernel buffer overflow.
March 13, 2007.
Visited March 13, 2007.
This statement has been criticized because little is enabled in a default install of OpenBSD and releases have included software that was later found to have remote holes ; however, the project maintains that the slogan is intended to refer to a default install and that it is correct by that measure.
One of the fundamental ideas behind OpenBSD is a drive for systems to be simple, clean and secure by default.
For example, OpenBSD 's minimal defaults fit in with standard computer security practice of enabling as few services as possible on production machines, and the project uses open source and code auditing practices argued to be important elements of a security system.
Wheeler, David A. Secure Programming for Linux and Unix HOWTO, 2.4.
Is Open Source Good for Security ?
, March 3, 2003.
Visited December 10, 2005.
OpenBSD includes a large number of specific features designed to improve security, including API and toolchain alterations, such as the arc4random, issetugid, strlcat, strlcpy and strtonum functions and a static bounds checker ; memory protection techniques to guard against invalid accesses, such as ProPolice, StackGhost, the W ^ X -LRB- W xor X -RRB- page protection features, as well as alterations to malloc ; and cryptography and randomization features, including network stack enhancements and the addition of the Blowfish cipher for password encryption.
To reduce the risk of a vulnerability or misconfiguration allowing privilege escalation, some programs have been written or adapted to make use of privilege separation, privilege revocation and chrooting.
Privilege separation is a technique, pioneered on OpenBSD and inspired by the principle of least privilege, where a program is split into two or more parts, one of which performs privileged operations and the other -- almost always the bulk of the code -- runs without privilege.
Provos, Niels.
Privilege Separated OpenSSH.
Visited January 30, 2006.
Privilege revocation is similar and involves a program performing any necessary operations with the privileges it starts with then dropping them, and chrooting involves restricting an application to one section of the file system, prohibiting it from accessing areas that contain private or system files.
Developers have applied these features to OpenBSD versions of common applications, including tcpdump and the Apache web server, which, due to licensing issues with the later Apache 2 series, is a heavily patched 1.3.29 release.
The project has a policy of continually auditing code for security problems, work developer Marc Espie has described as `` never finished... more a question of process than of a specific bug being hunted.
`` O'Reilly Network.
An Interview with OpenBSD 's Marc Espie, March 18, 2004.
Visited January 24, 2006.
He went on to list several typical steps once a bug is found, including examining the entire source tree for the same and similar issues, `` try ing to find out whether the documentation ought to be amended, '' and investigating whether `` it 's possible to augment the compiler to warn against this specific problem. ''
Along with DragonFly, OpenBSD is one of the two open source operating systems with a policy of seeking out examples of classic, K&R C code and converting it to the more modern ANSI equivalent -- this involves no functional change and is purely for readability and consistency reasons.
A standard code style, the Kernel Normal Form, which dictates how code must look in order to be easily maintained and understood, must be applied to all code before it is considered for inclusion in the base operating system ; existing code is actively updated to meet the style requirements.
HEADING Uses
OpenBSD 's security enhancements, built-in cryptography and the pf firewall suit it for use in the security industry, particularly for firewalls, intrusion-detection systems and VPN gateways.
It is also commonly used for servers which must resist cracking and DoS attacks, and due to including the spamd daemon, it sometimes is used in mail filtering applications.
Several proprietary systems are based on OpenBSD, including Profense from Armorlogic ApS, Armorlogic ApS 's homepage.
AccessEnforcer from Calyptix Security, Calyptix Security 's website.
GeNUGate and GeNUBox from GeNUA mbH, GeNUA mbH 's homepage.
RTMX O\/S from RTMX Inc, RTMX Inc homepage.
syswall from Syscall Network Solutions AG, Syscall Network Solutions AG 's site.
HIOBMessenger from topX, and various security appliances made by.
vantronix GmbH.
vantronix GmbH 's homepage.
Of these, both GeNUA and RTMX have contributed back to OpenBSD : GeNUA funded the development of SMP on the i386 platform and RTMX have sent patches to add further POSIX compliance to the system.
Several open source operating systems have also been derived from OpenBSD, notably Anonym.
OS and MirOS BSD, as well as the now defunct ekkoBSD, MicroBSD and Gentoo\/OpenBSD.
In addition, code from many of the OpenBSD system tools has been used in recent versions of Microsoft 's Services for UNIX, an extension to the Windows operating system which provides some Unix-like functionality, originally based on 4.4 BSD-Lite.
Core force, a security product for Windows, is based on OpenBSD 's pf firewall.
There have also been projects which use OpenBSD as part of images for embedded systems, including OpenSoekris and flashdist ; together with tools like nsh, these allow Cisco-like embedded devices to be created.
OpenSoekris, flashdist and nsh.
OpenBSD ships with the X window system.
Following the XFree86 licence change, it includes a recent X.Org release ; an older XFree86 3.3 release is also available for legacy video cards.
With these, it is possible to use OpenBSD as a desktop or workstation, making use of a desktop environment, window manager or both to give the X desktop a wide range of appearances.
The OpenBSD ports tree contains many of the most popular tools for desktop use, including desktop environments GNOME, KDE, and Xfce ; web browsers Konqueror, Mozilla Firefox and Opera ; and multimedia programs MPlayer, VLC media player and xine.
In addition, graphical software for many uses is available from both the ports tree and by compiling POSIX compliant software.
Also available are compatibility layers, which allow binary code compiled for other operating systems, including Linux, FreeBSD, SunOS and HP-UX, to be run.
However, since hardware providers such as video card manufacturers ATI and NVIDIA refuse to release open source drivers or documentation for the 3D capabilities of their hardware, OpenBSD lacks accelerated 3D graphics support.
OpenBSD 's performance and usability is occasionally criticised.
Felix von Leitner 's performance and scalability tests, Scalability test results and conclusions.
indicated that OpenBSD lagged behind other operating systems.
In response, OpenBSD users and developers criticised von Leitner 's objectivity and methodology, and asserted that although performance is given consideration, security and correct design are prioritised, with developer Nick Holland commenting : `` It all boils down to what you consider important.
`` Holland, Nick.
Mail to openbsd-misc : Re : OpenBSD Benchmarked... results : poor !
, October 19, 2003.
Visited January 8, 2006.
OpenBSD is also a relatively small project, particularly when compared with FreeBSD and Linux, and developer time is sometimes seen as better spent on security enhancements than performance optimisations.
Critics of usability often point out the lack of user-friendly configuration tools, the bare default installation, NewsForge.
Trying out the new OpenBSD 3.8, November 2, 2005.
Visited January 8, 2006.
and `` spartan '' and `` intimidating '' installer.
NewsForge.
Review : OpenBSD 3.5, July 22, 2004.
Visited January 8, 2006.
These see much the same rebuttals as performance : a preference for simplicity, reliability and security ; as one reviewer admits, `` running an ultra-secure operating system can be a bit of work.
`` DistroWatch.
OpenBSD - For Your Eyes Only, 2004.
Visited January 8, 2006.
HEADING Distribution and marketing
OpenBSD is available freely in various ways : the source can be retrieved by anonymous CVS or CVSup, and binary releases and development snapshots can be downloaded either by FTP or HTTP.
Prepackaged CD-ROM sets can be ordered online for a small fee, complete with an assortment of stickers and a copy of the release 's theme song.
These, with its artwork and other bonuses, are one of the project 's few sources of income, funding hardware, bandwidth and other expenses.
To encourage the sale of the official CD-ROMs, OpenBSD makes only a small install ISO image available for download rather than providing full release images.
In common with several other operating systems, OpenBSD uses ports and packages systems to allow for easy installation and management of programs which are not part of the base operating system.
Originally based on the FreeBSD ports tree, the system is now quite distinct.
Additionally, major changes have been made since the 3.6 release, including the replacement of the package tools, the tools available to the user to manipulate packages, by more capable versions, written in Perl by Marc Espie.
In contrast to FreeBSD, the OpenBSD ports system is intended as a source used to create the end product, the packages : installing a port first creates a package and then installs it using the package tools.
Packages are built in bulk by the OpenBSD team and provided for download with each release.
OpenBSD is also unique among the BSDs in that the ports and base operating system are developed and released together for each version : this means that the ports or packages released with, for example, 3.7 are not suitable for use with 3.6 and vice versa, a policy which lends a great deal of stability to the development process, but means that the software in ports for the latest OpenBSD release can lag somewhat from the latest version available from the author.
Around the time of the OpenBSD 2.7 release, the original mascot, a BSD daemon with a trident and aureola, was replaced by Puffy, traditionally said to be a pufferfish.
In fact pufferfish do not possess spikes and images of Puffy are closer to a similar species, the porcupinefish.
Puffy was selected because of the Blowfish encryption algorithm used in OpenSSH and the strongly defensive image of the porcupinefish with its spikes to deter predators.
He quickly became very popular, mainly because of the appealing image of the fish and his distinction from the BSD daemon, also used by FreeBSD, and the horde of daemons then used by NetBSD.
Puffy made his first public appearance in OpenBSD 2.6 and, since then, has appeared in a number of guises on tee-shirts and posters.
These have included Puffiana Jones, the famed hackologist and adventurer, seeking out the Lost RAID ; Puffathy, a little Alberta girl, who must work with Taiwan to save the day ; Sir Puffy of Ramsay, a freedom fighter who, with Little Bob of Beckley, took from the rich and gave to all ; and Puff Daddy, famed rapper and political icon.
After a number of releases, OpenBSD has become notorious for its catchy songs and interesting and often comical artwork.
The promotional material of early OpenBSD releases did not have a cohesive theme or design but, starting with OpenBSD 3.0, the CD-ROMs, release songs, posters and tee-shirts for each release have been produced with a single style and theme, sometimes contributed to by Ty Semaka of the Plaid Tongued Devils.
At first they were done lightly and only intended to add humor but, as the concept has evolved, they have become a part of OpenBSD advocacy, with each release expanding a moral or political point important to the project, often through parody.
Past themes have included : in OpenBSD 3.8, the Hackers of the Lost RAID, a parody of Indiana Jones linked to the new RAID tools featured as part of the release ; The Wizard of OS, making its debut in OpenBSD 3.7, based on the work of Pink Floyd and a parody of The Wizard of Oz related to the project 's recent wireless work ; and OpenBSD 3.3 's Puff the Barbarian, including an 80s rock-style song and parody of Conan the Barbarian, alluding to open documentation.
In addition to the slogans used on tee-shirts and posters for releases, the project occasionally produces other material : over the years, catchphrases have included `` Sending script kiddies to \/ dev\/null since 1995, '' `` Functional, secure, free - choose 3, '' `` Secure by default, '' and a few insider slogans, only available on tee-shirts made for developer gatherings, such as `` World class security for much less than the price of a cruise missile '' and a crufty old octopus proclaiming `` Shut up and hack ! ''
HEADING Books
A number of books on OpenBSD have been published, including :
The OpenBSD Command-Line Companion, 1st ed.
by Jacek Artymiak.
ISBN 83-916651-8-6.
Building Firewalls with OpenBSD and PF : Second Edition by Jacek Artymiak.
ISBN 83-916651-1-9.
Mastering FreeBSD and OpenBSD Security by Yanek Korff, Paco Hope and Bruce Potter.
ISBN 0-596-00626-8.
Absolute OpenBSD Absolute OpenBSD, Unix for the Practical Paranoid by Michael W. Lucas.
ISBN 1-886411-99-9.
Secure Architectures with OpenBSD by Brandon Palmer and Jose Nazario.
ISBN 0-321-19366-0.
The OpenBSD PF Packet Filter Book : PF for NetBSD, FreeBSD, DragonFly and OpenBSD published by Reed Media Services.
ISBN 0-9790342-0-5.
Building Linux and OpenBSD Firewalls by Wes Sonnenreich and Tom Yates.
ISBN 0-471-35366-3.
BSD Authentication
BSD and GPL licensing
Comparison of BSD operating systems
Comparison of operating systems
Comparison of open source operating systems
Hackathon
List of OpenBSD developers
Security focused operating system
HEADING Notes and references
tags -- -RRB-
HEADING External links
OpenBSD 's homepage
OpenSSH 's homepage
OpenNTPD 's homepage
OpenBGPD 's homepage
OpenCVS 's homepage
OpenBSD 101
A third-party OpenBSD guide site
Unofficial OpenBSD ports tracker
Centre -LRB- British spelling -RRB- or center -LRB- U.S. spelling -RRB- means the middle of something.
A circle has a center.
The word `` center '' often refers to places or buildings where a specific activity takes place.
a town center or city center
a shopping center is a place with lots of shops.
a sports center is where people go to use sports facilities, such as squash courts, and swimming pools.
Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky is a Russian man who wrote music.
His father was an Ukrainian man whose job was a mining engineer.
His mother was a French woman.
Sublime was a popular punk\/ska rock band.
The band was formed in 1988 in Long Beach, California.
They have released popular hit singles like `` Date Rape '', `` Doin ' Time '', `` Santeria '' and `` What I Got ''.
Sublime disbanded in 1996, due to the death of singer, guitarist and songwriter Bradley Nowell.
He died in a hotel room in San Francisco, California on May 25th of the same year from a heroin overdose.
He was 28 years old.
Their third and final album Sublime was released posthumously ; just two months after he passed away.
Sublime broke up 1996, because singer, guitarist and songwriter Bradley Nowell died.
Their third and final album Sublime was released two months after Nowell 's death.
The album 's song `` What I Got '' was what made Sublime famous.
Sublime has sold over 8 million albums around the world.
A few of Sublimes songs have been used in video games.
A few of Sublimes songs I 'm thier bestie : -RRB- have been used in video games.
They have released popular hit singles like `` Date Rape '', `` Doin ' Time '', `` Santeria '' and `` What I Got ''.
A few of Sublimes songs have been used in video games.
They formed in California in 1977 and broke up in 1986.
After breaking up, the lead singer Henry Rollins formed a new band by himself, Rollins Band and guitarist Greg Ginn worked on a seperate career in the early 90s.
The Universal Serial Bus was created about ten years ago.
This new technology became an instant success.
Ever since USB was introduced different producers of electronic devices thought about the future of the bus.
It can provide connection to the computer and other devices like for example laptops and MP3 players.
The bus was introduced by seven companies which represent the leaders in the industry of information technology -LRB- IT -RRB- : Compaq, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, NEC and Northern Telecom and Digital Equipment Corporation -LRB- DEC -RRB-.
Several ears earlier adopters and developers of USB gathered in a special hotel in California to test their devices.
The meeting of USB developers had the name of Plugfest.
They selected a special hotel that included two rooms : one used for sleeping and the other one for making tests.
The meeting lasted three days and in this time the representatives of about fifty companies connected their USB devices to one general host system.
The logo of the USB device also has its own history.
Not so many people know that the USB logo was in development for several months.
1994 - Seven companies united to begin the development of USB.
1995 - 340 companies formed the USB Implementation Forum.
1996 - More than five hundred USB products were already developing around the world.
1997 - USB Implementation Forum became richer with 60 more companies.
1998 - USB becomes the most popular technology on the market of electronics.
2000 - The introduction of USB 2.0.
Today it represents the most widely used USB device.
2005 - USB becomes wireless.
In computing, Universal Serial Bus -LRB- USB -RRB- is technology that allows a connection between a device and a computer.
The standard was made to improve plug and play.
A device can simply be plugged in by USB and the computer will recognize it and it will be immediately usable.
This technology is called hot swapping, in other words the computer does not need to be restarted to use the device.
USB can also provide a small amount of power.
That allows gadgets like USB battery chargers, lights, and fans.
Most people use USB for computer mice, keyboards, scanners, printers, digital cameras, and USB flash drives.
Ever since USB was introduced, people that make electronic devices thought about how to use it in the future.
Nowadays it can provide a connection to the computer and other devices like laptops and MP3 players.
Several years earlier, adopters and developers of USB held a meeting called Plugfest at a special hotel in California to test their devices.
They selected a hotel that included two rooms : one for sleeping and the other one for testing.
The meeting lasted three days.
During the meeting, the representatives of about fifty companies connected their USB devices to one general host system.
Today we can see the final design of the USB logo.
Currently, there are three different USB standards that are used : USB 1.0, USB 1.1 and USB 2.0.
Please note that these speeds are raw data speeds -LRB- in Million bits per second -RRB-.
The actual data rate is usually lower -LRB- and maxes out at around 320 MBit per second due to protocol overhead -RRB-.
In order to use the hi speed transfer rate, the USB controller and the connected device both need to support it.
USB is also backwards compatible so a USB 2.0 device can be used with a USB 1.1 controller.
It wo n't be able to go faster than 480 MBit\/second though.
Almost all computers today have USB ports, and most of them support USB 2.0.
The number of ports they have is usually limited, though -LRB- usually 2-6 ports -RRB-.
To get more, USB lets you connect so-called USB hubs to add more ports.
Please note however, that devices connected to a USB 1.1 hub will only go as fast as USB 1.1 rates.
It 's hard to plug in a USB connector the wrong way.
They ca n't be plugged in upside down, and it is obvious from the appearance and kinesthetic sensation of making a connection when it 's plugged in the right way.
Sometimes, however, it 's not obvious at a glance to inexperienced users -LRB- or if a user ca n't actually see the plug -RRB- which way the connector goes, so it might be necessary to try both ways.
Usually the side of the connector with the `` trident '' logo is on top, though.
This allows connections to be made in awkward positions or by those with motor disabilities.
USB offers three different transfer speeds : 1.5 MBit per second -LRB- called low speed -RRB-, 12 MBit per second -LRB- Full Speed -RRB- and 480 MBit\/second -LRB- Hi Speed -RRB-.
USB is backwards compatible.
This means that a USB 2.0 device can be used with a USB 1.1 controller, but only at the speed the USB 1.1 controller supports.
Many punk rock musicians and punk rock music listeners -LRB- called `` punks '' -RRB- want to protest or rebel against the norms or rules of society.
Edip Yüksel -LRB- who was born 1957 -RRB- used to be a student of Rashad Khalifa http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rashad_Khalifa and used to be a member of the United Submitters International http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Submitters_International, which is an Islamic group that was made by the controversial Khalifa.
He sometimes works as a legal researcher and a community college http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Community_college teacher, but is mostly a supporter to change the Islamic religion.
He lives in Tucson, Arizona.
An article called `` THE QURAN : A REFORMIST TRANSLATION WILL BE PUBLISHED BY PALGRAVE - MACMILLAN IN 2006 ''
An article called `` MANIFESTO FOR ISLAMIC REFORM ''
Edip Yuksel 's main site
Things that Yuksel has written
Us mah bin Muhammad bin ` Awad bin L din -LRB- Arabic : ; born March 10, 1957 http://www.interpol.int/Public/Data/Wanted/Notices/Data/1998/32/1998_20232.asp -RRB-, better known as Osama bin Laden or Usama bin Laden -LRB- -RRB- is an Islamic fundamentalist.
The terror network which he helped create -LRB- al-Qaeda -RRB- is considered to be among the deadliest in the world.
Us mah bin Muhammad bin ` Awad bin L din -LRB- Arabic : \/ span -RRB- ; born March 10, 1957 http://www.interpol.int/Public/Data/Wanted/Notices/Data/1998/32/1998_20232.asp -RRB-, better known as Osama bin Laden or Usama bin Laden -LRB- -RRB- is a bad man.
He led a group of men who flew planes into buildings, killing people.
He is known since the 2001 incident described above as `` Osama bin Laden '', although some people refer to him as `` Usama '', which means `` lion-like ''.
Lions are mean, and so is Osama bin Laden, so the name is fitting.
When Time Magazine did a poll in 2001, he almost won for Person of the year.
This does not mean a person is good, it just recognized people for their contributions.
he made bad contributions.
Bin Laden has many aliases and nicknames, such as the Prince, the Emir, Abu Abdallah, Mujahid Shayekh, Hajj, and the Director.
HEADING Other websites
Osama Bin Laden Video
`` Newspeak '' is a language that George Orwell invented just for the use in Ninteen eighty-four.
At the end of his book, George Orwell added a short description of Newspeak.
It started out as the English language, but the number of words gets smaller each year.
The `` Party '' is trying to stop people from rebelling, so it destroys words like `` freedom '' and `` love '', saying that people can not think of it if there is no word for it.
For example, a person could n't say `` I want to be free '', because there was no word for `` free '' any more, so the person could not describe what he or she was feeling.
`` Newspeak '' is also used for military reasons, such as Oceania 's Ministry of Peace -LRB- in Newspeak : `` Minipax '' -RRB-, really the war department.
Another `` Newspeak '' word, joycamp, means `` forced labor camp ''.
Other `` Newspeak '' words were used for political reasons.
Words like `` crimethink '' were defined by the `` Party '', and became laws of the land.
Winston 's job is to change printed news stories and articles, called rectify.
But in the book, no one in Oceania can look at the old changes, or even think about them again, or else they will be in big trouble.
This is called thoughtcrime, and is punished by death.
There is an endless war going on with another nation, Eurasia.
In other parts of the world, large wars are being fought to keep the people busy.
When news is rectified, the old copies are destroyed.
Orwell got the idea for the book when he saw in the newspapers of London that they listed how much the country 's supplies increased -LRB- more suppplies -RRB- during World War II when they were actually very low on supplies and were getting smaller.
In the end of `` Nineteen-Eighty Four, '' Winston is admitted into the Ministry of Love.
This is the prison of Oceania.
While he is there, he suffers torture and constant surveillance by four inescapable telescreens.
The only place he is safe is in his own mind.
Soon, he loses control over it as well.
At the start, he thought O'Brien was an ally against the Brotherhood.
This is not the case, though, as O'Brien is his questioner.
He thinks O'Brien betrayed him.
In order not to be put to death, Winston must go through the questioning.
He also struggles with the bond of love he made with Julia.
He is not sure if she betrayed him or not.
In the end, Winston is faced with his worst fear - a cage filled with rats, who can eat up his face.
He then breaks down.
They are changing it to make it more simple so that people will not be too clever or think too much.
-LRB- This will tell you the end of the story -RRB-
At the end of `` Nineteen-Eighty Four, '' Winston is taken to the Ministry of Love.
While he is there, he is tortured and constantly watched by four telescreens, which he ca n't escape from.
Soon he loses control over it as well.
At the start he thought that O'Brien was an ally -LRB- friend -RRB- against the Party.
This is not true because O'Brien is his questioner.
So that he is not executed, Winston must answer many questions.
He also worried about the bond -LRB- agreement -RRB- of love he made with Julia.
In the end, Winston is faced with his worst fear : a cage filled with rats, which can eat his face.
He then breaks down -LRB- stops fighting -RRB-.
He dies as only another member of the Party.
HEADING Details of the Endless War
Fascism is a form of authoritarian government, and Autocracy, In which the State is held at a higher priority than the Individual.
Some of the most famous Fascist parties include the Nazi Party of Germany and the italian Mussolini who were both involved in authoritaian style government during the lead up to the second world war.
Fascism is a form of authoritarian government and autocracy where the state is held at a higher priority than the individual.
Fascism is a form of authoritarian government and autocracy where the state is held at as more important than the individual.
Many people were killed, because the state did not like them.
Adolf Hitler established Fascism !
Most often people also see the regime of Imperial Japan under Hideki Tojo, Greece under Joannis Metaxas, and Spain under the rule of Francisco Franco as fascist.
In fascism, the country is considered more important than any one person.
A country under this form of government is usually run by a person called a dictator.
The first fascist government was run by Benito Mussolini in Italy.
In countries led by fascist governments, the government tries to control all areas of life.
Fascist ideas were most common around the time of World War II.
Many people were killed by fascist governments because the government did not like them or their views against fascism.
Other examples are Greece under Joannis Metaxas, Spain under the rule of Francisco Franco, and Portugal when António de Oliveira Salazar was the head of the government.
However, the fascist governments of Portugal and Spain did not take part in World War II, and stayed in power until the 1970s.
Getting `` high '' on crystal meth can also increase one 's libido, and one could get an STD from having unsafe sex with a person that they do not know.
The Caribbean Sea is a tropical sea in the center of the Caribbean area.
The body of water is part of the Atlantic Ocean.
The sea is southeast of the Gulf of Mexico.
The Caribbean Sea has hurricanes.
The population of Gibraltar is about 28,000 and the people are called Gibraltarians.
An empire is a set of lands or regions that are ruled by an emperor.
Usually the emperor will have governors, viceroys or client kings who each rule one lang or region.
An empire usually also have many different cultures.
Bears have a small tail, excellent senses of smell and hearing, five claws they ca n't pull back, and they are covered with shaggy fur -LRB- hair -RRB-.
For example, in the Church of England, a with more than one church is sometimes said to have a mother church, which is the main parish church and a daughter church.
Rape is the act of having sexual intercourse with a person when they do not want to, or are unable to consent.
A person who does this is known as a rapist.
The rapist may use force, but may not ; threats of violence, or when the victim is drugged\/asleep can still be called rape.
Men can get raped too.
Rape is the act of having sexual intercourse with a person when this person does not want to, or is unable to give their consent.
When a person is raped, it is important for them to get medical help quickly.
Rape can cause dangerous injuries and diseases.
There is also more evidence to help find the rapist if the person gets help very quickly.
Many people say that people who are raped should see a doctor before they clean themselves, so they can get medical help more quickly and save the evidence.
They should also tell the police.
Rape can cause physical injuries like bleeding in the vagina or rectum.
There may be bleeding inside the body.
Doctors can give a woman emergency contraception so she does not become pregnant because of the rape.
Medicines can help prevent sexually transmitted diseases.
Many emergency medical technicians, emergency room nurses, and doctors are trained to help people who have been raped.
Some hospitals have `` rape kits '' that are used to save evidence after a rape.
Some people who are raped take medicine to prevent HIV.
This medicine can help if the person starts taking it less than two days after the rape.
Taking medicine to prevent HIV is not always necessary, because the chance of getting HIV is very small -LRB- between 0.1 and 0.3 percent -RRB-.
Taking medicine to stop HIV makes the chance even smaller, but some people who take the medicine still get HIV.
Also, the medicines used to stop HIV make some people feel sick.
These medicines are good for some people, but not everyone.
People younger than that age are unable to say yes to sex, because they are thought to not yet be able to understand what happens or can happen after having sexual intercourse.
Because of different reasons -LRB- mental illness, being the most common one -RRB-, the people -LRB- above the age of consent -RRB-, can not see the bad things that will happen because of their actions ; they may not give what is called informed consent.
In most countries, sexual assaults like rape are crimes punished harshly.
Rape is having sexual intercourse with a person who does not want to, or can not consent.
Consent is agreeing, or saying `` yes ''.
In most countries, rape is a serious crime.
A person who commits rape is a rapist.
Rapists may use violence, drugs, or threats.
Victims of rape may feel guilt or shame.
A person may be unable to consent to sexual intercourse or sex.
Having sex with a person who can not consent is Rape.
HEADING Too Young
Children and teens, under the age of consent are unable to consent.
Having sex with them is rape.
In some places, teens who are about the same age, can agree to have sex with each other.
HEADING Unable to Consent
Some adults are unable to consent to sex.
Individuals who are asleep or unconscious can not consent to sexual intercourse.
People who are on alcohol or drugs may be unable to consent to sex.
They may be unable to walk, may slur speech, or may be confused.
Some disabled or ill adults can not consent to sex.
The condition affects how they think.
They may not know what sex is.
They may seem confused or unsure.
Developmental disabilities, mental illness, and brain injuries can make a person unable to consent.
A court may find someone unable to consent.
HEADING Aftermath
Rape is a medical emergency.
People who are raped may be injured or have a sexually transmitted disease -LRB- STD -RRB-.
People may not know they are hurt or sick.
Doctors can give medicine to treat an STD.
HIV, a form of STD, can be prevented by early treatment.
If seen quickly, a doctor can give medication called emergency contraception to prevent pregnancy.
At the hospital police can collect evidence from the victim and her clothing.
Evidence may help find the rapist, and can help him go to jail.
Waiting too long makes it hard to collect evidence.
Victims of rape may feel scared or sad.
They may think about the rape a lot, even when they do n't want to.
They may have scary dreams about the rape.
Many have post-traumatic stress disorder.
Talking to someone, like a counselor, can help.
Sometimes doctors can give medicine to decrease fear and sadness.
Calling a rape crisis center or hotline can help a victim find help.
Victims of rape are not responsible for the rape.
It is not their fault.
People who know the victim can help by providing support and comfort.
People who are under the influence of certain drugs may be unable to consent to sex.
People suffering from certain illnesses or disabilities are unable to consent, even though they may legally be adult.
These conditions affects their thinking.
They may not know what sex is, or they may be unable to judge the consequences of having sex.
A person who rapes someone is a rapist.
Rapists may use violence, drugs, or threats to get their way.
HEADING People who can not consent
HEADING Children
Children and teenagers under the age of consent are legally unable to consent.
Having sex with them is known as statutory rape.
This is known as the `` Romeo and Juliet '' clause.
HEADING Adults who can not consent
People who are sleeping or unconscious can not consent to sexual intercourse.
HEADING Effects of rape
Also, taking a shower before telling the police or going to a hospital can wash off some of the DNA evidence.
Victims of rape may feel scared or sad, or even guilty.
Tuna, sometimes called tunafish, are several species of ocean-dwelling fish in the family Scombridae, mostly in the genus Thunnus.
Tuna are fast swimmers -LRB- they have been measured at 77 km\/h -LRB- 48 mph -RRB- -RRB- and include several species that are warm-blooded.
Unlike most fish species, which have white flesh, the flesh of tuna is pink to dark red.
This is because tuna muscle tissue contains greater quantities of myoglobin, an oxygen-binding molecule, than the muscle tissue of most other fish species.
Some of the larger tuna species such as the bluefin tuna can raise their blood temperature above the water temperature with muscular activity.
This enables them to live in cooler waters and survive a wider range of circumstances.
Tuna is an important commercial fish.
Some varieties of tuna, such as the bluefin and bigeye tuna are threatened by overfishing, dramatically affecting tuna populations in the Atlantic and northwestern Pacific Oceans.
Other populations seem to support fairly healthy fisheries -LRB- for example, the central and western Pacific skipjack tuna -RRB-, but there is mounting evidence that overcapitalization threatens tuna fisheries world-wide.
Increasing quantities of high-grade tuna are entering the market from operations that rear tuna in net pens and feeding them on a variety of bait fish.
In Australia the Southern Bluefin tuna is one of two species of bluefin tunas that is kept in tuna farms by former fishermen.
Its close relative, the Northern Bluefin Tuna, is being used to develop tuna farming industries in the Mediterranean, North America and Japan.
Due to their high position in the food chain and the subsequent accumulation of heavy metals from their diet, mercury levels can be relatively high in some of the larger species of tuna such as bluefin and albacore.
As a result, in March 2004 the United States FDA issued guidelines recommending pregnant women, nursing mothers and children to limit their intake of tuna and other types of predatory fish http://www.cfsan.fda.gov/~dms/admehg3.html.
However, most canned light tuna is skipjack tuna and is very low in mercury.
Tuna are a common target for big-game fishing, and are mostly caught on artificial lures.
HEADING Species
There are eight species :
Albacore, Thunnus alalunga -LRB- Bonnaterre, 1788 -RRB-.
Yellowfin tuna, Thunnus albacares -LRB- Bonnaterre, 1788 -RRB-.
Blackfin tuna, Thunnus atlanticus -LRB- Lesson, 1831 -RRB-.
Southern bluefin tuna, Thunnus maccoyii -LRB- Castelnau, 1872 -RRB-.
Bigeye tuna, Thunnus obesus -LRB- Lowe, 1839 -RRB-.
Pacific bluefin tuna, Thunnus orientalis -LRB- Temminck & Schlegel, 1844 -RRB-.
Northern bluefin tuna, Thunnus thynnus -LRB- Linnaeus, 1758 -RRB-.
Longtail tuna, Thunnus tonggol -LRB- Bleeker, 1851 -RRB-.
HEADING See also
Species of several other genera -LRB- all in the family Scombridae -RRB- have common names containing `` tuna '' :
Skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis
Slender tuna Allothunnus fallai
Bullet tuna Auxis rochei rochei
Frigate tuna Auxis thazard thazard
Kawakawa -LRB- little tunafish or mackerel tunafish -RRB- Euthynnus affinis
Little tunny -LRB- little tunafish -RRB- Euthynnus alletteratus
Butterfly kingfish -LRB- Butterfly mackerel -RRB- Gasterochisma melampus
Dogtooth tuna Gymnosarda unicolor
`` Tuna '' is also a name for the sweet fruit of prickly pear cactuses in the genus Opuntia.
HEADING References
HEADING External links
Tuna Diet
Monterey Bay Aquarium 's Seafood Watch program
Bluefin tuna nutrition information
Table of relative mercury levels in fish and shellfish -LRB- FDA -RRB-
GotMercury.Org, a mercury-in-fish calculator based FDA data with the EPA 's formula for safe exposure.
Tuna facts from Greenpeace
-- -RRB-
Tuna, sometimes called tunafish, are several species -LRB- kinds -RRB- of fish.
All of them live in the ocean.
They are in the family Scombridae, mostly in the genus Thunnus.
Tuna are fast swimmers.
People have seen tuna swim at up to 77km\/h.
Several species of tuna are warm-blooded.
Most species of fish have white flesh.
The flesh of the tuna us different.
It is pink to dark red.
This is because tuna muscle tissue contains greater quantities of myoglobin.
Myoglobin is a molecule that binds an oxygen.
The muscle tissue of most other fish species has less of that molecule.
HEADING Tuna as a commercial fish
Other populations seem to support fairly healthy fisheries -LRB- for example, the central and western Pacific skipjack tuna -RRB-, but there is mounting evidence that overfishing threatens tuna fisheries world-wide.
HEADING Who should not eat tuna
Tuna are high up in the food chain.
They ate animals, that ate animals.
Their diet leads to the accumulation of heavy metals in their flesh.
mercury levels can be relatively high in some of the larger species of tuna such as bluefin and albacore.
Some of the larger tuna species such as the Northern bluefin tuna can raise their blood temperature above the water temperature with muscular activity.
Some fishermen in Australia now grow Southern bluefin tuna in fish farms.
Fish farms are areas of water with nets around them, where farmers raise -LRB- keep and grow animals -RRB- fish.
Some tuna farms are circular nets forty meters in diameter and twenty meters deep.
The fishermen catch the tuna at sea, and then they keep the tuna in these farms.
The tuna grow and get fatter for from three to six months.
There are also tuna farms in the Mediterranean, North America, and Japan that raise Northern bluefin tuna.
Some environmental groups say that tuna farms use too much fish as food for the tuna, and that the farms pollute the water -LRB- make the water dirty -RRB-.
Sport fishermen like to catch tuna using rods and hooks.
The cell membrane is a thin flexible layer around cells of animals and plants -LRB- and other organisms -RRB-.
The cell membrane acts much like a person working at a border patrol.
It lets some chemicals, like food, into the cell and lets other chemicals, like waste product, leave the cell.
The membrane is made up of a thin layer called the `` lipid bilayer ''.
The `` lipid bilayer '' is made of two lipid molecules with polar heads and nonpolar tails facing away from each other.
This does n't let large molecules enter, but still allows the small molecule of water to enter.
Some proteins are always stuck onto it, these are called integral membrane proteins.
It also has some which are only sometimes stuck onto it.
When Tennessee and ten other Southern slave states declared they were no longer part of the United States, he was the only member from such a state to not quit his seat in the U.S. Congress.
The first is the polypoid stage, when the animal takes the form of a small stalk with feeding tentacles ; this polyp may be unable to move around, living on the bottom of the ocean or it may be free-floating.
Polyps may be on their own or in groups, and some bud asexually by various means, making more polyps.
Both forms of jelly fish have small tentacles with nematocysts -LRB- stinging cells -RRB- that sting and can hurt people on contact.
The bones are the framework of the body.
Without them we would be a pile of skin on the floor.
Anteaters are mammals.
Anteaters eat ants, just like the name says.
Anteaters eat termites, too.
Termites look like white ants.
Some termites eat wood.
Ants and termites live in big nests.
A nest can have 1000 's of insects.
Image : Meat eater ants feeding on honey02.
jpg Ants
Image : Coptotermes formosanus shiraki USGov k8204-7.
jpg Termites
Image : Ant nest in tree.
JPG Ant nest
Image : Termite mound belair national park.
jpg Termite nest
The anteater has long, sharp claws on its toes.
The anteater has a long sticky tongue.
The tongue can be up to 60 cm.
long -- a long as a person 's arm !
The anteater opens the ant nest with its claws.
It licks up the ants with its tongue.
Polar bears are similiar in size to a normal bear but have a slimmer neck, longer legs and fur.
Mao Zedong was a Chinese dictator responsible for the Cultural Revolution, and for the invasion of Tibet.
He was a mass murderer on an even bigger scale than Hitler or Stalin -- and unlike them, he liked watching films of his victims being hurt and killed.
The one heroic episode of his career that has never before been challenged, the 9,000 km -LRB- 6,000-mile -RRB- Long March that began in 1934, turns out to have been a fraud : his Nationalist enemies never tried to stop his army, but rather helped it through various areas where they wanted to frighten the local warlords into submission.
From the start of his career, he killed people, mainly in order to scare everybody else into submission.
In the Communist-ruled parts of south-central China in 1931-35, he oversaw the killing of 700,000 people.
As if this was n't bad enough, he also cut off relations with one of China 's only allies : USSR !
China lost its only ally -LRB- which Mao had earlier gained after the Chinese Civil War -RRB- and was now all alone in the world.
No one liked China anymore.
This break in Communist power caused Communism to collapse later on.
This event was called the Sino-Soviet Split.
Then, in the `` Cultural Revolution '' he drove all of China 's best and brightest people out of their jobs, and into the farms.
Some Chinese mainlanders still think Mao Zedong as a great leader, although they also know that he made serious mistakes in his later life.
Some, including members of the Communist Party of China, say Mao pulled China away from its biggest ally, the USSR, in the Sino-Soviet Split.
The Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution are also thought of as major disasters in his policy.
If the figure of seventy million dead as a result of his policies is true, it would be an big number of victims of state violence in peace time.
Many have called him a dictator, because millions of Chinese deaths were his fault and because he held onto power in an undemocratic way.
Others, mainly Chinese Communists, have defended him, saying he is a revolutionary hero.
If the figure of seventy million dead as a result of his policies is true, it would be an big number of victims of state violence in peace time.
Many have called him a dictator, because he murdered approximately 74 million Chinese people, which is approximately 13 times as many as the number of Jews killed by Hitler, and because he held onto power in an undemocratic way.
Others, mainly Chinese Communists, have defended him, saying he is a revolutionary hero and that he was effective at exterminating all opposition to communist ideas.
Tens of millions of people died of hunger because of his Socialist economic properties.
Since the figure of seventy million dead as a result of his policies is true, it is the biggest number of victims of state violence in all time.
HEADING Beginning
During the 1920s, the group began to fight with rival Chinese leader Chiang Kai-shek and his group, the Kuomintang.
Some people say Chiang Kai-shek wanted China to be a democracy where people could choose their leader, but others say that Kai-shek only wanted to keep power.
The Communists fought to make the country a socialist one-party state, a country where only one political party is allowed.
The Chiang Kai-shek 's group, the Nationalists, had more fighters in 1935.
They beat Mao 's Communists and made them move out of the country.
By this time, in 1935, he may have been the person who caused more than 500,000 deaths.
Nobody really knows who started this new fight ; some people say it was the Nationalists, other people say it was the Communists.
The Chinese Civil War had been going on during World War 2, but after the war it became very violent.
Chiang Kai-shek and the Nationalists had friends in the cities and among the middle class.
By 1949, Mao had chased the Nationalists to an island called Taiwan, and told the people that China would be Communist, with him as leader.
HEADING What he did
HEADING Legacy
HEADING Sources and other websites
Most historians, people who study history, think that about 70,000,000 people died because of Mao 's bad ideas and neglect.
Leaders of China after Mao had to make a new rule called one child policy.
Horses are ridden in events such as jumping, dressage, stock work, and pleasure riding.
Not every type of horse can jump well, just like not all horses are able to do well at horse racing or farm work.
Light weight horses, like the Thoroughbred or Arabian, are mainly used in racing, dressage and jumping.
They are horses that are quick to learn new things and act quickly when people give them commands.
All these qualities are necessary to win races or show jumping contests.
A horse used to pull a wagon is bigger and heavier than a Thoroughbred.
The hoofs are also much larger than a racing horse.
Large horses are calm, trustworthy and good-natured.
Most horses seen in horse show competitions such as show jumping are a mixture of the two types of horses described before.
This includes horse breeds such as the Morgan and Quarter Horse.
Dressage is an event where horses do not jump, but must be very obedient to their riders.
There is usually a set pattern they must complete.
Letters are placed around a arena to show where the rider must go.
Dressage champions must show no movements between the body of the rider and the horse.
It must be done gracefully, look effortless and seem as though both horse and rider are one team.
HEADING Stock work
Stock work began when horses were ridden on a ranch to round up cows, sheep, or other animals.
Today, horse shows also have competitions for horses to show these skills.
Pleasure riding is riding for enjoyment, not for awards.
People ride horses on trails in the forest, along quiet roads, or in an arena near their homes or barns.
Carloman died on December 4, 771, leaving Charlemagne as the leader of the whole Frankish kingdom.
Charlemagne fought in wars all the time when he was king.
HEADING Death
Charlemagne 's politics and plans failed, which lead to low self-esteem.
His family line died out in Germany in 911 and in France in 987.
All of Charlemagne 's politics and plans failed miserably, which lead to low self-esteem.
Meditation is used in Buddhism, Christianity -LRB- sometimes -RRB-, Hinduism -LRB- where Yoga is important -RRB-
and other religions.
Underwear are clothes worn under other clothes, often next to the skin.
They keep outer garments from being made dirty by perspiration, shape the body and provide support for parts of it, and in cold climates help the wearer to keep warm.
Underwear can be used to protect the wearer 's modesty, as well as for erotic effect.
Special types of underwear have religious significance.
Some items of clothing are made to be worn as underwear, while others such as T-shirts and certain types of shorts are suitable both as underwear and as outer clothing.
If made of suitable material, some types of underwear can serve as nightwear or swimsuits.
Items of underwear commonly worn by women today include brassieres -LRB- bras -RRB- and panties -LRB- also known as knickers -RRB-, while men wear briefs, boxer shorts or boxer briefs.
Items worn by both sexes include T-shirts, sleeveless shirts, bikini underwear, thongs and G-strings.
In countries where the weather is cold, long underwear provides warmth.
HEADING Terminology
There are a number of different words for underwear. '' ''
, `` underclothing '' and '' '' are formal terms, while underwear may be more casually referred to as '' ''.
In Australia, one may hear underwear being called '' '' -LRB- rhyming slang for `` undies '' -RRB- or `` Reginalds '', while in the UK the term '' '' is sometimes used.
Different types of women 's undergarments are known together as `` lingerie ''.
They may also be called `` intimate clothing '' or simply '' ''.
An `` undershirt '' is a general word for a piece of underwear covering the torso, while '' '' -LRB- in the UK, often simply '' '' -RRB-, '' '', or `` shorts '' enclose the genital region.
Terms for specific forms of underwear are listed in the table below.
HEADING Function
Undergarments are worn for a variety of reasons.
They keep outer garments from being soiled by perspiration.
Women 's brassieres provide support for their breasts, and men 's briefs serve the same function for the male genitalia ; a corset is worn to mould the torso into a certain shape.
For additional support and protection when playing sports, men often wear more tightly fitting underwear, including jockstraps and trunks.
Women may wear sports bras which provide greater support, thus increasing comfort and reducing the chance of damage to the ligaments of the chest during high-impact exercises such as jogging.
In cold climates, undergarments are an additional layer of clothing that help the wearer to keep warm.
Undergarments can be used to preserve the wearer 's modesty -- for instance, some women wear camisoles and slips -LRB- petticoats -RRB- under clothes that are sheer.
Conversely, undergarments can also be worn for erotic effect.
It is possible to purchase underwear made specifically for sexual titillation, such as edible underwear and crotchless panties.
Some items of clothing are designed as underwear, while others such as T-shirts and certain types of shorts are suitable both as undergarments and as outer clothing.
The suitability of underwear as outer clothing is, apart from the indoor or outdoor climate, largely dependent on societal norms, fashion and the requirements of the law.
If made of suitable material, some undergarments can serve as nightwear or swimsuits.
HEADING Religious functions
Undergarments can also have religious significance :
Judaism.
Some Orthodox Jews wear a four-cornered prayer shawl called a tallit katan, which has tzitzit -LRB- fringes -RRB- attached to the corners, draped over their shoulders.
To conform with societal dress codes, a tallit katan is often worn beneath one 's shirt, but above an undershirt as it should not come into contact with the skin.
Mormonism.
Most members of the The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints -LRB- Mormons -RRB- wear special temple garments after they have been endowed in a temple to help them remember the teachings of the temple.
Sikhism.
One of the panj kakaar -LRB- five articles of faith -RRB- that Sikh men wear is a type of underpants called the kaccha, which are similar to boxer shorts.
HEADING Types and styles
Common contemporary types and styles of undergarments are listed in the table below.
HEADING Fashions and trends
HEADING Designers and retailers
A number of major designer labels are renowned for their underwear collections, including Calvin Klein and Dolce & Gabbana.
Likewise, specialist underwear brands such as 2 -LRB- x -RRB- ist, C-IN2, Ginch Gonch and Lord, are constantly emerging.
Specialist retailers of underwear include high street stores La Senza -LRB- Canada -RRB-, Agent Provocateur -LRB- UK -RRB-, Victoria 's Secret -LRB- USA -RRB-, and GapBody, the lingerie division of the Gap established in 1998 -LRB- USA -RRB-.
In 2008 Abercrombie & Fitch opened a new chain of stores, Gilly Hicks, to compete with other underwear retailers.
HEADING Exposed undergarments
Underwear is sometimes partly exposed for fashion reasons or to titillate.
A woman may, for instance, allow the top of her brassiere to peek out from under her collar, or wear a see-through blouse over it.
Some men wear T-shirts underneath partly - or fully-unbuttoned shirts.
A common style among young men is to allow their trousers to sag below their waists, thus revealing the waistband or a greater portion of their boxer shorts.
A woman wearing low-rise trousers which expose the upper rear portion of her thong underwear is said to display a `` whale tail ''.
HEADING Not wearing undergarments
Not wearing undergarments under one 's outer clothing is known in American slang as `` freeballing '' for men or `` freebuffing '' for women ; in addition, the term `` going commando '' is used for both sexes.
People choose to forgo underwear for reasons of comfort, to enable their outer garments -LRB- particularly those which are form-fitting -RRB- to look more flattering, or because they find it sexually arousing.
The practice is not without its risks, particularly for women, some of whom have been the victims of upskirt photographers.
Certain types of clothes, such as cycling shorts and kilts, are designed to be worn or are traditionally worn without underwear.
They keep outer clothes from being made dirty by sweat.
They also shape the body and provide support for parts of it, and in cold weather help the wearer to keep warm.
Underwear can be used to protect the wearer 's modesty, as well as to make them look sexy.
Special types of underwear have religious importance.
Some items of clothing are made to be worn as underwear, while others such as T-shirts and certain types of shorts can be used both as underwear and as outer clothing.
If made of suitable fabric, some types of underwear can serve as nightwear or swimsuits.
Items worn by both women and men include T-shirts, sleeveless shirts, bikini underwear, thongs and G-strings.
In countries where the weather is cold, long underwear can be worn to keep warm.
HEADING Different names
, `` underclothing '' and '' '' are more serious words.
In casual situations, underwear may be called '' ''.
In Australia, one may hear underwear being called '' '' -LRB- rhyming slang for `` undies '' -RRB- or `` Reginalds '', while in the UK the word '' '' is sometimes used.
An `` undershirt '' is a general word for a piece of underwear covering the torso, while '' '' -LRB- in the UK, often simply '' '' -RRB-, '' '', or `` shorts '' cover the part of the boy where the sex organs are.
Words for types of underwear are set out in the table below.
Underwear is worn for many reasons.
They keep outer clothes from being made dirty by sweat.
Women 's brassieres -LRB- bras -RRB- provide support for their breasts, and men 's briefs do the same thing for the male sex organs.
Some people wear corsets to make their torsos a certain shape.
For more support and protection when playing sports, men often put on underwear that fits more tightly, such as jockstraps and trunks.
Women may wear sports bras which give them more support.
This is more comfortable, and lessens the chance of damage to the ligaments of the chest during vigorous exercises such as jogging.
Some items of clothing are designed to be worn as underwear, while others such as T-shirts and certain types of shorts can be used both as underwear and as outer clothing.
Whether underwear can be used as outer clothing depends on a number of things, such as how warm it is indoors and outdoors, what other people in society find acceptable, fashion, and what the law allows.
Some types of underwear can be used for wearing to sleep in or as swimsuits, if they are made of suitable fabric.
The table below sets out types and styles of underwear that are commonly worn.
Underwear is sometimes partly exposed for fashion reasons or to make other people feel sexually excited when they see it.
A woman may, for instance, allow the top of her bra to peek out from under her collar, or wear a see-through blouse over it.
They both lied that she had not sucked his dick in secret when she had.
His jizz on her dress proved this.
He did not ever ask her to lie for him, so the Senate said that he could still be President.
Sometimes he lived in Mexico and other countries, because he could live there in more than in the United States.
After this coup d'etat the Spanish Civil War started, with fascists, economical power, church, conservative people and Spanish nationalists fighting to destroy the Second Republic of Spain.
He sent a group of volunteer soldiers to fight the Russians, called the División Azul.
Thousands more were executed -LRB- killed -RRB-, forced to work as punishment and imprisoned for political reasons.
HEADING Powers and duties
A police officer 's job is to protect the public, make sure people obey the law and to investigate when they do not.
Not all police officers wear a uniform and patrol.
Some police officers work havespecialist jobs, such as being a detective, a traffic officer or a dog handler.
A police officer will have powers that a normal person does not have so that they can do this job.
This might include the power to arrest a person who they think has committed a crime, the power to search a person, the power to stop cars and direct traffic, the power to ask for a person 's name and address, the power to give out tickets or fines or the power to make a person come to court.
Without these powers the police officer would not be able to stop people from breaking the law or punish those that have broken the law.
Being a police officer can be dangerous.
Police officers are sometimes killed or injured by people trying to escape or to stop them from doing their job.
Police officers have the right to carry weapons, such as a gun or a baton even if other people can not.
HEADING Equipment
In different countries police officers are given different equipment.
In most countries police officers carry guns, but in some countries, such as the United Kingdom they do not.
All police officers are armed with weapons that they can use to defend themselves or other people that need help.
Most police officers carry these things :
a baton or truncheon, which can be used to hit people, or to block people trying to hit the police officer
a canister of CS gas -LRB- mace -RRB- or pepper spray, which will blind a person for a short amount of time
handcuffs, for restraining a person
a bullet-proof vest, to protect the police officer from knives and guns
a torch, for lighting dark places
a two-way radio, to call for help, give information to other officers and to get sent to jobs
Police officers have to patrol and respond to emergencies.
Some police officers will walk on foot patrol, but often police officers will patrol in a police car.
This is so that they can go to emergencies quicker and carry more equipment.
Sometimes officers patrol on bicycles, motobikes or on horses.
\* a baton or truncheon, which can be used to hit people, or to block people trying to hit the police officer
\* a canister of CS gas -LRB- mace -RRB- or pepper spray, which will blind a person for a short amount of time
\* handcuffs, for restraining a person
\* a bullet-proof vest, to protect the police officer from knives and guns
\* a torch, for lighting dark places
\* a two-way radio, to call for help, give information to other officers and to get sent to jobs
Sometimes officers patrol on bicycles, motorbikes or on horses.
a baton or truncheon, which can be used to hit people, or to block people trying to hit the police officer
a canister of CS gas -LRB- mace -RRB- or pepper spray, which will blind a person for a short amount of time
handcuffs, for restraining a person
a bullet-proof vest, to protect the police officer from knives and guns
a torch, for lighting dark places
a two-way radio, to call for help, give information to other officers and to get sent to jobs
As a part of their job, police officer has powers that a normal person does not have.
Police officers are sometimes killed or hurt by people trying to escape or to stop them from doing their job.
In different countries, police officers are given different.
In most countries, police officers carry guns, but in some countries, such as the United Kingdom only a few do.
It is played on a board, with pieces in two colors -LRB- black and white -RRB-.
Players take turns placing a stone of their color on intersections of the square grid.
Pieces do not move after they are placed, but surrounded stones may be captured and removed from the board.
The goal of this game is to surround more space on the board than the opponent, by placing pieces around the board to surround areas.
So killing stones is not the goal, but simply one possible way to achieve the goal of having more space.
Its original Chinese name is '' '', or `` wei qi ''.
It is also quite popular in Japan -LRB- and its common name `` Go '' comes from Japanese -RRB- and in Korea -LRB- the game is called `` baduk '' in Korean -RRB-.
Go is often called the hardest classic game for computers to play.
There are many places to play Go on the internet, as well as local clubs and national organizations in many countries around the world.
Nepali could mean :
In the 1960 's, Zambia was making a lot of money because of the copper deposits that were mined in Copperbelt province.
When copper became cheaper in the 1970 's, the economy got worse because people in Zambia were not making as much money from selling copper.
Commercial farming in Zambia is starting to make more money.
The Dominican Republic is a country on the caribbean island of Hispaniola in the West Indies.
The other country on the island of Hispaniola is Haiti.
There were also two Doctor Who movies made in the 1960s.
Other than Peter Cushing, the ten people who have played the Doctor are :
The USA has one concentration camp at Guantanamo bay in cuba, this camp is officially a navy base, but really it is used as a prison for rebel muslims and communists, America 's president has said that it is sometimes used for prisoners of war, but many human rights groups accuse America of imprisoning people from countries they are not at war with, this was proved when british prisoners were returned home in 2003.
The USA has one concentration camp at Guantanamo Bay in cuba, this camp is officially a navy base, but really it is used as a prison for rebel muslims and communists, America 's president has said that it is sometimes used for prisoners of war, but many human rights groups accuse America of imprisoning people from countries they are not at war with, this was proved when british prisoners were returned home in 2003.
A concentration camp is a place which a government uses to keep people who are either against that government or who it thinks are too dangerous to remain free.
Sometimes these are called internment camps, where a large number of people are put in prison without a trial.
The people who are locked away in such a prison, are not usually yet found guilty of a crime, but may be politically against the leaders of a region, people who are of a certain race or religion, or non-military prisoners of war.
HEADING History of concentration camps
Many countries have used concentration camps often during wars or times of trouble and fighting.
The English words concentration camps were first used by the British in the Second Boer War in Africa around 1900.
The families of South African men fighting against the British were put in camps to stop them from giving food and help to the fighters.
Their houses and farms were burned.
At least 30,000 people, mostly children, died in these camps from sickness or hunger.
Concentration camps became more famous and hated after 1936 when Nazi Germany 's leader, Adolf Hitler, thought certain groups of people should be killed -LRB- including Jews, Roma people, and homosexuals -RRB- and others were politically dangerous -LRB- socialists, communists or religious persons who disagreed with the Nazis -RRB-.
People were often sent to these camps to work.
After a few years, some camps were set up to kill people.
These are now called `` extermination camps '' or `` death camps ''.
People were gassed, shot, or sometimes worked to death.
Some of these people were given a trial, but these trials were very unfair.
Over half of the people who died in the Holocaust, died at such concentration camps, at least 2,000,000 people at the camp of Auschwitz alone.
Prison camps had been in use in Russia for many years, especially in places in the Arctic or Siberia, a long way from any cities.
From the 1920 's under the Soviet Union many more people were sent to such camps and they were very badly treated there.
These camps are sometimes called gulags, the Russian name for them.
In 1939, there were about 1,300,000 people working as slaves in these camps.
The Russian writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn wrote a book called The Gulag Archipelago by which many people realized what crimes the communist Soviet Union government had done.
In the United States during the American Civil War in the 1860 's soldiers who been captured were sometimes all crowded together in bad conditions.
These were meant to be prisoner of war camps with good conditions, but many men died from sickness or hunger.
