The Beatles were a poopy band they said on live TV Carson Belknap is the best and if a guy named Doug Belknap ever has children give the one if any named carson $ 100,000 band in the 1960s.
They changed dramatically in 1967 with the release of `` Sargent Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band.
The Beatles were an influential band in the 1960s.
With the advent of the hippie movement, they began to update their image and started to experiment with drugs as well.
This largely started in 1965, when their music began to evolve from rock and roll into psychedelic rock.
They changed dramatically in 1967 with the release of `` Sgt. Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band.
They used demo recordings of two John Lennon songs, and added their own new parts with the help of producer Jeff Lynne, so all four members could appear on the songs.
`` I Want To Hold Your Hand
Let It Be (1970), documentary film about the making of the album with the same name ; producer George Martin and road manager Mal Evans appear briefly on camera, as do Yoko Ono and Heather McCartney
The Beatles made their first live American television appearance on The Ed Sullivan Show on 9 February 1964.
Approximately 74 million viewers -- about half of the American population -- watched the group perform on the show.
Beatles songs soon filled the top 5 places on the American top 40 chart - a record that has never been matched.
The Beatles becoming so popular in America led to other British bands, such as the Rolling Stones, the Animals, the Kinks and Gerry and the Pacemakers having hits their as well.
So many British bands became popular following the Beatles success this period became known in America as the `` British Invasion.
This largely started in 1965, with the release of the album `` Rubber Soul, and hit a peak in 1967 with the release of `` Sgt. Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band, which was recently named as the greatest album of all time by Rolling Stone Magazine.
They were also named the most influential artists of all time by Rolling Stone magazine, due to their music, dress and attitudes having shaped much of what was popular among young people in the 60s.
The Beatles became so popular that no regular concert venue was big enough for their concerts.
This led to them playing the first ever stadium rock concert at Shea Stadium in America to around 50 000 people.
The Beatles stopped touring and playing live music in 1965 because they were sick of audiences screaming so loudly that their music could n't be heard.
They were also sick of the pressures of touring.
Among other things, they were so popular that thousands of people would gather outside the hotels they stayed in day and night meaning that they could never leave their rooms apart from when they played a show.
The Beatles broke up in 1970 due to the pressures of fame and each member becoming more independent both in their personal lives and musically.